FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20070705162211.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Distribution Related Agreements
On June 30, 2007 (the "Distribution Date"), the distribution (the "Distribution") by Morgan Stanley ("Morgan Stanley") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Discover Financial Services ("Discover" or the "Company") to the stockholders of Morgan Stanley was completed in a spin-off intended to qualify for tax-free treatment.
The Distribution was effected pursuant to the Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated June 29, 2007, between Morgan Stanley and Discover (the "Distribution Agreement"). A description of the Distribution Agreement is included in the information statement filed as an exhibit to Discover's Registration Statement on Form 10, as amended (the "Information Statement"), and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Distribution Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
In connection with the Distribution, Discover and certain of its subsidiaries entered into certain agreements with Morgan Stanley and certain of its subsidiaries to govern the terms of the spin-off and to define the ongoing relationship between Discover and Morgan Stanley following the spin-off, allocating responsibility for obligations arising before and after the spin-off, including obligations with respect to liabilities relating to Morgan Stanley's business and to Discover's business and obligations with respect to each company's employees, certain transition services and taxes. Those agreements include:
 
 
 
 
Formation of Discover Card Execution Note Trust
On July 2, 2007, Discover Bank entered into a Trust Agreement, dated as of July 2, 2007, with Wilmington Trust Company (the "Trust Agreement") with respect to the formation of Discover Card Execution Note Trust as a Delaware statutory trust pursuant to the Delaware Statutory Trust Act. A copy of the Trust Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.5 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On the Distribution Date, prior to the Distribution, Discover amended and restated its certificate of incorporation (the "Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation"). A description of the material provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is included in the Information Statement and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Election of Directors
On June 28, 2007, the following persons were elected to Discover's Board of Directors (the "Board"), effective as of the time of the Distribution:
Jeffrey S. Aronin
Mary K. Bush
Gregory C. Case
Dennis D. Dammerman (Chairman)
Robert M. Devlin
Michael L. Rankowitz
E. Follin Smith
Lawrence A. Weinbach
Information regarding the directors listed above, other than Mr. Case and Ms. Smith, is contained in the Information Statement.
Gregory C. Case, 44, is President and Chief Executive Officer of Aon Corporation, a position he has held since 2005. He also is a member of Aon's Board of Directors. Prior to joining Aon, Mr. Case headed the Global Insurance and Financial Services practice at McKinsey & Company, where he had worked for 17 years. He also worked for the investment banking firm of Piper, Jaffray and Hopwood and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Mr. Case serves as a Director for Children's Memorial Hospital, the Economic Club of Chicago, and the Financial Services Roundtable, among others.
E. Follin Smith, 47, retired from Constellation Energy Group in May 2007, where she was Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer. Ms. Smith joined Constellation Energy Group as Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer in June 2001 and was appointed Chief Administrative Officer in December 2003. She also served as Senior Vice President and CFO of Armstrong Holdings, Inc., where she had worked since 1998. Prior to joining Armstrong, Ms. Smith held senior financial positions with General Motors, including Chief Financial Officer for the company's Delphi Chassis System division. Ms. Smith is on the Board of Directors for Ryder Systems, Inc., and the Board of Trustees of the Darden Foundation of the University of Virginia.
The new directors join Philip A. Laskawy and David W. Nelms, who were on the Board prior to the Distribution.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any of the individuals listed above and any other person pursuant to which such individuals were selected as directors. There are no transactions involving any of the individuals listed above that would be required to be reported under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Resignation of Directors
On June 28, 2007, each of Roger C. Hochschild, Roy A. Guthrie and Diane E. Offereins resigned as directors of Discover, effective as of the time of the Distribution. They remain executive officers of Discover.
 
Appointment of Committee Members
On the Distribution Date, the Board appointed Mr. Laskawy (Chair), Ms. Bush and Ms. Smith as members of the Audit Committee, Messrs. Dammerman (Chair), Aronin and Devlin, as members of the Compensation Committee and Mr. Weinbach (Chair), Ms. Bush and Mr. Case as members of the Nominating and Governance Committee.
 
The information included in Item 3.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated by reference into this Item 5.03.
 
On July 2, 2007, the Company issued a news release announcing the completion of the Distribution. A copy of the press release is included herein as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
SEPARATION AND DISTRIBUTION AGREEMENT dated as of June 29, 2007 (the "") between Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (""), and Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Morgan Stanley
Discover
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley, through the Discover Group (as defined below), is currently engaged in the credit card and electronic payments business;
WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley has determined that it is in the best interests of Morgan Stanley, Discover and the shareholders of Morgan Stanley to distribute to the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Morgan Stanley (the "") as of the Record Date (as defined below), by means of a dividend, 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Discover (the ""), on the basis of one share of Discover Common Stock for every two then issued and outstanding shares of Morgan Stanley Common Stock (the "");
Morgan Stanley Common Stock
pro rata
Discover Common Stock
Distribution
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley and Discover have prepared, and Discover has filed with the Commission, the Form 10 (as defined below), which includes the Information Statement (as defined below), and which sets forth appropriate disclosure concerning Discover and the Distribution, and the Form 10 has become effective under the Exchange Act (as defined below);
WHEREAS, the Distribution has been preceded by the Cash Dividend, the Restructuring and the Special Dividend (each as defined below);
WHEREAS, for United States federal and state income tax purposes, the Distribution is intended to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Sections 355 and 368 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), and the corresponding provisions of state law, and Morgan Stanley has applied for certain tax rulings to such effect; and
Code
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have determined to set forth the principal actions required to effect the Distribution and to set forth certain agreements that will govern the relationship between the parties following the Distribution.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained in this Agreement, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01The following terms, as used herein, have the following meanings:
. Definitions.
"" means any demand, claim, suit, action, arbitration, inquiry, investigation or other proceeding by or before any Governmental Authority or any arbitration or mediation tribunal.
Action
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such other Person; that for purposes of this Agreement, any Person who was a member of both Groups prior to the Distribution shall be deemed to be an Affiliate only of the Group of which such Person is a member following the Distribution. For the purposes of this definition, "" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. Any contrary provision of this Agreement notwithstanding, members of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and members of the Discover Group, on the other hand, shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of the other.
Affiliate
provided
control
controlling
controlled
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Agreement
"" means each of the Corporate Card Agreements, the U.S. Employee Matters Agreement, the Intellectual Property Agreement, the Investment Banking Agreement, the Lease Agreements, the Licensing Agreement, the Litigation Side Letter, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Transition Services Agreement, the U.K. Asset Transfer Agreement, the U.K. Employee Matters Agreement and the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement.
Ancillary Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Person, any federal, state, local or foreign law (statutory, common or otherwise), constitution, treaty, convention, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling, directive, guidance, instruction, direction, permission, waiver, notice, condition, limitation, restriction or prohibition or other similar requirement enacted, adopted, promulgated, imposed, issued or applied by a Governmental Authority that is binding upon or applicable to such Person, its properties or assets or its business or operations, as amended unless expressly specified otherwise.
Applicable Law
"" means, as the context requires, the Morgan Stanley Business or the Discover Business.
Business
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02.
Cash Dividend
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Claim
 
"" means the processing of claims made under Morgan Stanley Policies, including the reporting of claims to the insurance carrier, management and defense of claims, and providing for appropriate releases upon settlement of claims.
Claims Administration
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05(a).
Claims Made Policies
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Code
"" means the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.05.
Confidential Information
"" means any identifiable information about individuals (including, without limitation, identifiable consumers or employees or other personnel) to which any member of a Group provides access or transfers to any member of the other Group solely pursuant to this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement or which any member of such Group otherwise collects, uses, discloses, processes or otherwise handles from or for the other Group solely in connection with this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Confidential Personal Information
"" means the (i) Corporate Employee Discover Card Agreement, (ii) Corporate Travel Master Billing Agreement and the (iii) Corporate Events Master Billing Agreement each between Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Discover Services Corporation to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Corporate Card Agreements
Exhibit A
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Discover
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a).
Discover Assumed Actions
"" means the business conducted by the Discover Group from time to time, whether before, on or after the Distribution. For clarity, the "Discover Business" shall include (i) the credit card and related assets and liabilities transferred from MSBIL to Goldfish Bank as contemplated pursuant to paragraph 2(a) of , (ii) Goldfish Card Services transferred from MSGE to Goldfish Bank as contemplated pursuant to paragraph 2(c) of and (iii) Goldfish Bank, Goldfish Credit Enhancing, Goldfish Credit Servicing and Goldfish Procurement contributed by Morgan Stanley to Discover pursuant to paragraph 4 of , and exclude the mortgage businesses that were transferred from the Discover business segment of Morgan Stanley to the Institutional Securities business segment of Morgan Stanley in 2005, in each case as conducted from time to time, whether before, on or after the Distribution.
Discover Business
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
Schedule 1
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Discover Common Stock
 
"" means Discover and its Subsidiaries.
Discover Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a).
Discover Indemnitees
"" means any member of the Discover Group that is named insured, additional named insured or insured under any Shared Policy.
Discover Insured Party
"" means, except as otherwise specifically provided for in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, all Liabilities (whether arising before, on or after the Distribution Date and whether based on facts occurring before, on or after the Distribution Date) of or relating to, or arising from or in connection with, the Discover Group, the conduct of the Discover Business or the ownership or use of assets in connection therewith. For clarity, Discover Liabilities shall include all Liabilities arising in connection with the Discover Assumed Actions and exclude all Liabilities of or relating to, or arising from or in connection with the mortgage businesses that were transferred from the Discover business segment of Morgan Stanley to the Institutional Securities business segment of Morgan Stanley in 2005, as conducted from time to time, whether before, on or after the Distribution, except as expressly contemplated by the Mortgage Loan Services Agreement referred to in .
Discover Liabilities
Schedule 5
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04.
Disposing Party
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution
"" means Mellon Investor Services.
Distribution Agent
"" means June 30, 2007.
Distribution Date
"" means this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements.
Distribution Documents
"" means 12:00 p.m. on the Distribution Date.
Distribution Time
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
"" means, with respect to the payment of Unrelated Claims pursuant to the same Shared Policy, the payment in full of each successful claim (regardless of whether a Morgan Stanley Insured Party or a Discover Insured Party is the claimant) in the order in which such successful claim is approved by the insurance carrier, until the limit of the applicable Shared Policy is met.
FIFO Basis
"" means, with respect to any party, all credit facilities, guarantees, comfort letters, letters of credit and similar instruments related primarily to such party's Business under which any member of such party's Group has any primary, secondary, contingent, joint, several or other liability.
Financial Instruments
 
"" means the registration statement on Form 10 filed by Discover with the Commission to effect the registration of Discover Common Stock pursuant to the Exchange Act in connection with the Distribution, as such registration statement may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
Form 10
"" means Goldfish Bank Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
Goldfish Bank
"" means Goldfish Card Services Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
Goldfish Card Services
"" means Goldfish Credit Enhancing, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Goldfish Credit Enhancing
"" means Goldfish Credit Servicing, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Goldfish Credit Servicing
"" means Goldfish Procurement, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Goldfish Procurement
"" means any multinational, foreign, federal, state, local or other governmental, statutory or administrative authority, regulatory body or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral authority which has any jurisdiction or control over either party (or their Affiliates), including without limitation the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority (or any successor thereto).
Governmental Authority
"" means, as the context requires, the Discover Group or the Morgan Stanley Group.
Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Indemnified Party
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(a).
Indemnifying Party
"" means the Information Statement to be sent to each holder of Morgan Stanley Common Stock in connection with the Distribution.
Information Statement
"" means a Morgan Stanley Insured Party or a Discover Insured Party.
Insured Party
"" means the Intellectual Property Agreement between Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Intellectual Property Agreement
Exhibit B
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04.
Intercompany Accounts
 
"" means the Engagement Letter between Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Investment Banking Agreement
Exhibit C
"" means the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means the lease amendments and related documents in the form of .
Lease Agreements
Exhibit D
"" means any and all claims, debts, liabilities and obligations, absolute or contingent, matured or not matured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or unaccrued, known or unknown, whenever arising, including all costs and expenses relating thereto, and including, without limitation, those debts, liabilities and obligations arising under this Agreement, any Applicable Law, or any award of any arbitrator of any kind, and those arising under any agreement, commitment or undertaking.
Liabilities
"" means the Transitional Trade Mark Licence Agreement between Morgan Stanley & Co. International PLC and Goldfish Bank to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Licensing Agreement
Exhibit E
"" means the Litigation Side Letter between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Litigation Side Letter
Exhibit F
"" means, with respect to any Person, any and all damages, losses, liabilities and expenses incurred or suffered by such Person (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses in connection with any and all Actions or threatened Actions).
Losses
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble.
Morgan Stanley
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(a).
Morgan Stanley Assumed Actions
"" means the business conducted by the Morgan Stanley Group for time to time, whether before, on or after the Distribution (but excluding the Discover Business).
Morgan Stanley Business
"" has the meaning set forth in the recitals to this Agreement.
Morgan Stanley Common Stock
"" means Morgan Stanley and its Subsidiaries (other than any Subsidiary or member of, or other entity in, the Discover Group).
Morgan Stanley Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01(a).
Morgan Stanley Indemnitees
 
"" means any member of the Morgan Stanley Group that is named insured, additional named insured or insured under any Shared Policy.
Morgan Stanley Insured Party
"" means, except as otherwise specifically provided in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, all Liabilities (whether arising before, on or after the Distribution Date and whether based on facts occurring before, on or after the Distribution Date) of or relating to, or arising from or in connection with, the Morgan Stanley Group, the conduct of the Morgan Stanley Business or the ownership or use of assets in connection therewith, but excluding any Discover Liabilities. For clarity, "Morgan Stanley Liabilities" shall include all Liabilities arising in connection with the Morgan Stanley Assumed Actions.
Morgan Stanley Liabilities
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.02.
Morgan Stanley Policies
"" means Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales.
MSBIL
"" means Morgan Stanley Domestic Capital, Inc., a Delaware corporation, which is a wholly owned indirect Subsidiary of Morgan Stanley and the sole shareholder of Discover, and its successors and assigns (including without limitation, any Person which may acquire all or substantially all of MSDCI's assets or business, or with or into which MSDCI may be consolidated or merged).
MSDCI
"" means Morgan Stanley Group (Europe), an unlimited company incorporated in England and Wales.
MSGE
"" means The New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
NYSE
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05(a).
Occurrence Based Policies
"" means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a governmental or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means any actual or threatened unauthorized access, acquisition, use, alteration, creation, destruction, loss, theft, copying or disclosure of Confidential Personal Information of the other Group, including user IDs or passwords, regardless of whether such information has been encrypted, only if such incident is reasonably likely to result in harm to a consumer or customer by way of misuse of such consumer's or customer's Confidential Personal Information.
Personal Information Incident
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.06.
Privilege
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.06.
Privileged Information
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04.
Receiving Party
"" means June 18, 2007.
Record Date
"" means a claim or claims against a Shared Policy made by one or more Discover Insured Parties, on the one hand, and one or more Morgan Stanley Insured Parties, on the other hand, filed in connection with Losses suffered by either a Discover Insured Party or a Morgan Stanley Insured Party, as the case may be, arising out of the same underlying transaction or series of transactions or event or series of events that have also given rise to Losses suffered by a Morgan Stanley Insured Party or a Discover Insured Party, as the case may be, which Losses are the subject of a claim or claims by such Person against a Shared Policy.
Related Claims
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.05.
Representatives
"" means the reorganization of certain businesses of the Discover Group and the Morgan Stanley Group intended to be completed on or before the Distribution Date, as described in .
Restructuring
Schedule 1
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05(a).
Shared Policies
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Special Dividend
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. For clarity, Goldfish Bank, Goldfish Card Services, Goldfish Credit Enhancing, Goldfish Credit Servicing and Goldfish Procurement are Subsidiaries of Discover for purposes of this Agreement.
Subsidiary
"" means the Tax Sharing Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Tax Sharing Agreement
Exhibit G
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.03(b).
Third-Party Claim
"" means a Person that is not an Affiliate of the Discover Group or Morgan Stanley Group.
Third Party
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b).
Transferred Actions
 
"" means the Transition Services Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
Transition Services Agreement
Exhibit H
"" means the Agreement for the Sale and Purchase of Certain of the Assets of Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited between MSBIL and Goldfish Bank and related side letters in the form of .
U.K. Asset Transfer Agreement
Exhibit I
"" means the U.K. Employee Matters Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
U.K. Employee Matters Agreement
Exhibit J
"" means the Supplemental Tax Sharing Agreement Relating to Tax in the United Kingdom between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement
Exhibit K
"" means a claim or claims against a Shared Policy that is not a Related Claim.
Unrelated Claims
"" means the U.S. Employee Matters Agreement between Morgan Stanley and Discover to be entered into as of the Distribution Date, substantially in the form of .
U.S. Employee Matters Agreement
Exhibit L
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.03.
Visa/MasterCard Litigation
Section 1.02(a) In this Agreement, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
. Interpretation.
(i) words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular;
(ii) references to any Person include such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Agreement;
(iii) reference to any gender includes the other gender;
(iv) the words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(v) reference to any Article, Section, Exhibit or Schedule means such Article or Section of, or such Exhibit or Schedule to, this Agreement, as the case may be, and references in any Section or definition to any clause means such clause of such Section or definition;
 
(vi) the words "herein," "hereunder," "hereof," "hereto" and words of similar import shall be deemed references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof;
(vii) reference to any agreement, instrument or other document means such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and by this Agreement;
(viii) reference to any law (including statutes and ordinances) means such law (including all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) as amended, modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect at the time of determining compliance or applicability;
(ix) relative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including," "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including";
(x) the titles to Articles and headings of Sections contained in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement; and
(xi) unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to dollar amounts herein shall be in respect of lawful currency of the United States.
On or prior to the Distribution Date:
Section 2.01. Morgan Stanley shall mail the Information Statement to the holders of Morgan Stanley Common Stock as of the Record Date. Morgan Stanley and Discover shall take all such actions as may be necessary or appropriate under the securities or blue sky laws of states or other political subdivisions of the United States and shall use reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable foreign securities laws in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements. Discover shall prepare, file and pursue an application to permit listing of the Discover Common Stock on the NYSE.
Information Statement; Listing.
Section 2.02.Prior to completion of the Restructuring, Discover shall declare and distribute to MSDCI a cash dividend (the "") in an amount equal to the excess of Discover's balance sheet capital over the estimated amount that is determined to be necessary as of the
Cash Dividend.
Cash Dividend
 
Distribution Time, based on Morgan Stanley's and Discover's views (which will take into consideration, among other things, the amount of managed credit card receivables, deferred tax assets and intangible assets of the Discover Group) of underlying business risks, regulatory requirements and rating agency views.
Section 2.03. Subsequent to completion of the Restructuring, Discover shall declare and distribute to Morgan Stanley a dividend (the "") in the form of an undertaking by Discover to pay to Morgan Stanley a portion of the after-tax proceeds received by Discover or any of its Affiliates in connection with the litigation Discover is as of the date hereof pursuing against Visa U.S.A, Inc. and MasterCard Worldwide (the "") pursuant to the terms and conditions set forth in . Discover hereby agrees to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in relating to the Special Dividend. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Discover shall pay or cause to be paid such amounts to Morgan Stanley as set forth in and take or cause to be taken any and all actions as may be necessary or appropriate to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in .
Special Dividend.
Special Dividend
Visa/MasterCard Litigation
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
Section 2.04. The parties shall use reasonable efforts to settle all intercompany receivables, payables and other balances ("") between members of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and members of the Discover Group, on the other hand, except for any such intercompany receivable, payable or other balance to the extent arising under or specifically provided for in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement.
Intercompany Accounts.
Intercompany Accounts
Section 2.05. Each party shall use reasonable efforts to take or cause to be taken all actions, and enter into such agreements and arrangements as shall be necessary, to (i) terminate all obligations of the other party (and members of its Group) under any of the first party's Financial Instruments that is in existence immediately prior to the Distribution or (ii) cause itself (or another member of its Group) to be substituted for the other party (and members of its Group) in respect of their obligations under any of the first party's Financial Instruments that is in existence immediately prior to the Distribution; that if such a termination or substitution is not effected by the Distribution (i) each party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other party from and against any Losses arising from or relating to its Financial Instruments in accordance with the applicable provisions of Section 7.01 or Section 7.02 and (ii) without the prior written consent of the other party (or the applicable members of its Group), such party shall not, and shall not permit any other member of its Group to, renew or extend the term of, increase the obligations or Liabilities under, or transfer to a third party, any such Financial Instrument unless all obligations of the other party (and members of its Group) with respect thereto are thereupon terminated by documentation reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to the other party (or the applicable members of its Group).
Financial Instruments.
provided
 
Section 2.06. . Each individual who is an officer, director or employee of any member of the Morgan Stanley Group and any member of the Discover Group shall resign, effective at or prior to the Distribution, from all positions such individual holds with all members of one or the other Group, such that following the Distribution such individual will not hold such positions in both Groups.
Shared Employees
Section 2.07In addition to the actions specifically provided for elsewhere in this Agreement, each of the parties hereto shall use its reasonable efforts to take, or cause to be taken, all actions, and to do, or cause to be done, all things, reasonably necessary, proper or advisable under Applicable Laws, regulations and agreements or otherwise to consummate and make effective the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including but not limited to using its reasonable efforts to obtain any consents and approvals and to make any filings and applications necessary or desirable in order to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
. Further Assurances and Consents.
Section 3.01. In no event shall the Distribution occur unless each of the following conditions shall have been satisfied (or waived by Morgan Stanley in its sole discretion):
Conditions Precedent to Distribution.
(i) the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley shall be satisfied that the Distribution will be made out of surplus within the meaning of Section 170 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and shall have received a solvency opinion in form and substance satisfactory to the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley to that effect;
(ii) prior to completion of the Restructuring, the Cash Dividend shall have been declared and distributed by Discover;
(iii) the Restructuring shall have been completed;
(iv) the Special Dividend shall have been declared and distributed by Discover;
(v) all material Intercompany Accounts shall have been settled;
(vi) the Form 10 shall have been filed with the Commission and declared effective by the Commission, no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Form 10 shall be in effect, no proceedings for such purpose shall be pending before or threatened by the Commission, and the Information Statement shall have been mailed to holders of the Morgan Stanley Common Stock as of the Record Date;
 
(vii) all actions and filings necessary or appropriate under applicable federal, state or foreign securities or "blue sky" laws and the rules and regulations thereunder shall have been taken and, where applicable, become effective or been accepted;
(viii) the Discover Common Stock to be delivered in the Distribution shall have been approved for listing on the NYSE, subject to official notice of issuance;
(ix) the Board of Directors of Discover, as named in the Information Statement, shall have been duly elected, and the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of Discover, each in substantially the form filed as an exhibit to the Form 10, shall be in effect;
(x) each of the Ancillary Agreements shall have been duly executed and delivered by the parties thereto;
(xi) Morgan Stanley shall have received a private letter ruling from the IRS and/or an opinion of Davis Polk & Wardwell, in either case reasonably satisfactory to Morgan Stanley, confirming the application of Sections 355 and 368 of the Code to the Distribution and certain related matters, and a ruling from the California Franchise Tax Board or an opinion of counsel, in either case reasonably satisfactory to Morgan Stanley, confirming the application of the corresponding provisions of California state tax law to the Distribution;
(xii) no Applicable Law shall have been adopted, promulgated or issued that prohibits the consummation of the Distribution or the other transactions contemplated hereby;
(xiii) all material governmental approvals and consents and all material permits, registrations and consents from third parties, in each case, necessary to effect the Distribution and to permit the operation of the Discover Business after the Distribution Date substantially as it is conducted at the date hereof shall have been obtained;
(xiv) Discover shall have received credit ratings from the rating agencies that are satisfactory to Morgan Stanley; and
(xv) no event or development shall have occurred or exist that, in the judgment of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley, in its sole discretion, makes it inadvisable to effect the Distribution or the other transactions contemplated hereby.
Each of the foregoing conditions is for the sole benefit of Morgan Stanley and shall not give rise to or create any duty on the part of Morgan Stanley or its Board of Directors to waive or not to waive any such condition or to effect the Distribution, or in any way limit Morgan Stanley's rights of termination set forth
 
in this Agreement. Any determination made by Morgan Stanley on or prior to the Distribution concerning the satisfaction or waiver of any or all of the conditions set forth in this Section 3.01 shall be conclusive and binding on the parties.
Section 3.02. . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, (i) on or prior to the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall deliver to the Distribution Agent for the benefit of holders of record of Morgan Stanley Common Stock on the Record Date, book-entry transfer authorizations for 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of Discover Common Stock, (ii) the Distribution shall be effective at the Distribution Time, and (iii) Morgan Stanley shall instruct the Distribution Agent to distribute, on or as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, to each holder of record of Morgan Stanley Common Stock as of the Record Date, by means of a dividend, one share of Discover Common Stock for every two shares of Morgan Stanley Common Stock so held. Following the Distribution Date, Discover agrees to provide all book-entry transfer authorizations for shares of Discover Common Stock that Morgan Stanley or the Distribution Agent shall require (after giving effect to Sections 3.03 and 3.04) in order to effect the Distribution.
The Distribution
pro rata
Section 3.03. . Upon the effectiveness of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of Discover to be filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, each share of Discover Common Stock then issued and outstanding shall, without any action on the part of the holder thereof, be subdivided and converted into that number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Discover Common Stock issued and outstanding equal to the number necessary to effect the Distribution.
Subdivision of Discover Common Stock to Accomplish the Distribution
Section 3.04. . No fractional shares of Discover Common Stock will be distributed in the Distribution. The Distribution Agent will be directed to determine the number of whole shares and fractional shares of Discover Common Stock allocable to each holder of Morgan Stanley Common Stock as of the Record Date. Upon the determination by the Distribution Agent of such number of fractional shares, as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the Distribution Agent, acting on behalf of the holders thereof, shall sell such fractional shares for cash on the open market and shall thereafter promptly disburse to each such holder entitled thereto its ratable portion of the resulting cash proceeds, after making appropriate deductions of the amounts required to be withheld for United States federal income tax purposes, if any, and after deducting an amount equal to all brokerage charges, commissions and transfer taxes attributed to the sale of fractional shares pursuant to this Section 3.04.
Fractional Shares
Section 3.05.EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH HEREIN OR IN ANY OTHER DISTRIBUTION DOCUMENT, NO MEMBER OF EITHER GROUP MAKES ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND WHATSOEVER, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, TO ANY MEMBER OF THE OTHER GROUP OR
NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES.
 
ANY OTHER PERSON WITH RESPECT TO ANY OF THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY, OR THE BUSINESS, ASSETS, CONDITION OR PROSPECTS (FINANCIAL OR OTHERWISE) OF, OR ANY OTHER MATTER INVOLVING, EITHER BUSINESS, OR THE SUFFICIENCY OF ANY ASSETS TRANSFERRED TO THE APPLICABLE GROUP, OR THE TITLE TO ANY SUCH ASSETS, OR THAT ANY REQUIREMENTS OF APPLICABLE LAW ARE COMPLIED WITH RESPECT TO THE RESTRUCTURING OR THE DISTRIBUTION. EACH MEMBER OF EACH GROUP SHALL TAKE ALL OF THE BUSINESS, ASSETS AND LIABILITIES TRANSFERRED TO OR ASSUMED BY IT PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY DISTRIBUTION DOCUMENT ON AN "AS IS, WHERE IS" BASIS, AND ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A SPECIFIC PURPOSE OR OTHERWISE ARE HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMED.
Section 4.01Except as may otherwise be expressly provided in this Article 4, Discover does hereby agree, for itself and on behalf of the Discover Group, that the Morgan Stanley Group shall not have any Liability whatsoever as a result of the insurance policies, insurance contracts and claim administration contracts and practices related to the foregoing of the Morgan Stanley Group in effect at any time prior to the Distribution Time, including as a result of the level or scope of any such insurance policies, insurance contracts, claim administration contracts, the creditworthiness of any insurance carrier, the terms and conditions of any policy or contract and the adequacy or timeliness of any notice to any insurance carrier or claims administrator with respect to any actual claim or potential claim or otherwise.
. Insurance Prior to the Distribution Date.
Section 4.02Morgan Stanley or any member of the Morgan Stanley Group will continue to own all insurance policies, insurance contracts and claim administration contracts of any kind of any member of the Morgan Stanley Group which were or are in effect at any time at or prior to the Distribution Time (other than insurance policies, insurance contracts and claim administration contracts established in contemplation of the Distribution to cover only the Discover Group after the Distribution Time), including general liability (whether primary, excess or umbrella), fiduciary liability, automobile, aircraft hull and liability, all risk property (including business interruption) and casualty, directors and officers liability, employer's liability, workers' compensation, comprehensive crime, errors and omissions and property/boiler and machinery insurance policies, together with all rights, benefits and privileges thereunder (collectively, the ""). Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, (a) the members of the Morgan Stanley Group shall retain all of their respective rights, benefits and privileges, if any, under the Morgan Stanley Policies and (b) subject
. Ownership of Existing Policies and Programs.
Morgan Stanley Policies
 
to the Discover Group's rights under Section 4.05, coverage of the Discover Group under the Morgan Stanley Policies shall cease as of the Distribution Time. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to be an attempted assignment of or a change to any part of the ownership of the Morgan Stanley Policies.
Section 4.03Until the Distribution Time, Morgan Stanley shall maintain in full force and effect the Morgan Stanley Policies to the extent that such policies apply to the Discover Business.
. Maintenance of Insurance for Discover.
Section 4.04Commencing on and as of the Distribution Date, Discover shall be responsible for establishing and maintaining separate property damage and business interruption and liability insurance policies and programs (including general liability (whether primary, excess or umbrella), fiduciary liability, automobile, aircraft hull and liability, all risk property (including business interruption) and casualty, directors and officers liability, employer's liability, workers' compensation, comprehensive crime, errors and omissions and property/boiler and machinery insurance policies) for activities and claims involving any member of the Discover Group. Each member of the Discover Group, as appropriate, shall be responsible for all administrative and financial matters relating to insurance policies established and maintained by any member of the Discover Group and claims relating to any period at or after the Distribution Time involving any member of the Discover Group.
. Acquisition and Maintenance of Post-Distribution Insurance by Discover.
Section 4.05(a) At and after the Distribution Time: (i) Discover and the other members of the Discover Group will have the right to assert claims for any Losses with respect to the Discover Business under Morgan Stanley Policies that cover any member of the Discover Group and/or any or all of the Discover Business within the definition of the named insured, additional named insured, additional insured or insured (excluding, for the avoidance of doubt, any group health and welfare insurance policies) ("") with Third Party insurers that are "occurrence based" insurance policies ("") arising out of insured occurrences occurring from the date coverage thereunder first commenced until the Distribution Time to the extent that the terms and conditions of any such Occurrence Based Policies and agreements relating thereto so allow; (ii) Discover and the other members of the Discover Group will have the right to prosecute or continue to prosecute claims with respect to the Discover Business properly asserted under Occurrence Based Policies for claims which arose at or prior to the Distribution Time to the extent that the terms and conditions of any such Occurrence Based Policies and agreements relating thereto so allow; and (iii) Discover and the other members of the Discover Group will have the right to assert and/or continue to prosecute claims with respect to the Discover Business under Shared Policies with Third Party insurers that are made under liability insurance policies written on a "claims made" basis ("") arising out of insured incidents occurring from the date coverage thereunder first
. Rights Under Shared Policies.
Shared Policies
Occurrence Based Policies
Claims Made Policies
 
commenced until the Distribution Time to the extent that the terms and conditions of any such Claims Made Policies and agreements relating thereto so allow; , that in the case of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), (A) subject to Section 4.05(b), the Morgan Stanley Group may, at any time, without liability or obligation to the Discover Group, amend, commute, terminate, buy-out, extinguish liability under or otherwise modify any Shared Policies (and such claims shall be subject to any such amendments, commutations, terminations, buy-outs, extinguishments and modifications), (B) such claims will be subject to (and recovery thereon will be reduced by the amount of) any applicable deductibles, retentions or self-insurance provisions, and, with respect to any such deductibles, retentions or self-insurance provisions which require a payment by a member of the Morgan Stanley Group in respect thereof, Discover shall reimburse such member of the Morgan Stanley Group for a portion of such payment based on Discover's interest in such claim, (C) Discover shall be responsible for and shall pay any claims handling expenses or residual Liability arising from such claims and (D) such claims will be subject to exhaustion of existing sublimits and aggregate limits as provided in Section 4.05(b). No member of the Morgan Stanley Group will bear any Liability for the failure of an insurer to pay any claim under any Shared Policy. It is understood that any Claims Made Policies may not provide any coverage to the Discover Group for incidents occurring prior to the Distribution Time but that are asserted with the insurance carrier after the Distribution Time.
provided
pro rata
(b) In the event that after the Distribution Time Morgan Stanley proposes to amend, commute, terminate, buy-out, extinguish liability under or otherwise modify any Shared Policies under which Discover, the Discover Business or the other members of the Discover Group has or may in the future have rights to assert claims pursuant to this Article 4 in a manner that would adversely affect any such rights of Discover, the Discover Business or the other members of the Discover Group, Morgan Stanley will give Discover prior notice thereof.
(c) To the extent that the limits of any Shared Policy preclude payment in full of Unrelated Claims filed by any member of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and any member of the Discover Group, on the other hand, the insurance proceeds available under such Shared Policy shall be paid to Morgan Stanley and/or Discover, as applicable, on a FIFO Basis. In the event that any member of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and any member of the Discover Group, on the other hand, file Related Claims under any Shared Policy, each of Morgan Stanley and Discover shall receive a amount of the available insurance proceeds, based on the relationship the Loss incurred by each such party bears to the total Loss to both such parties from the occurrence or event underlying the Related Claims.
pro rata
Section 4.06(a) From and after the Distribution, the Morgan Stanley Group will be responsible for the Claims Administration with respect to claims of the Morgan Stanley Group under Shared Policies.
. Administration and Reserves.
 
(b) From and after the Distribution, the Discover Group will be responsible for the Claims Administration with respect to claims of the Discover Group under Shared Policies. Discover shall provide advance notice to Morgan Stanley of any such claims.
(c) Each party agrees to consider in good faith (but shall have no obligation to accept) any requests by the other party to provide assistance to, and cooperate with, such party or any member of its Group with respect to the Claims Administration referred to in Sections 4.06 (a) and 4.06(b). None of the members of either Group and their respective directors, officers, agents and employees shall have any liability, whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise, to any Person for or in connection with the provision of such assistance or cooperation. All out of pocket expenses incurred by either party in providing any such assistance or cooperation shall be reimbursed promptly by the other party.
Section 4.07From and after the Distribution Time, Morgan Stanley will pay all premiums, taxes, assessments or similar charges (retrospectively-rated or otherwise) as required under the terms and conditions of the respective Shared Policies in respect of periods of coverage prior to the Distribution Time, whereupon Discover will upon the request of Morgan Stanley promptly reimburse Morgan Stanley for that portion of such additional premiums and other payments paid by Morgan Stanley as are reasonably determined by Morgan Stanley to be attributable to the Discover Business. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent that Discover has previously paid a premium (or has been allocated a portion of a premium by Morgan Stanley) or satisfied a deductible amount under a Shared Policy, Discover shall not be required to pay such premium pursuant to the foregoing sentence or satisfy such deductible again if Discover makes a claim under such Shared Policy in accordance with this Article 4.
. Insurance Premiums.
Section 4.08In the event that a Shared Policy provides coverage for both a member of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and a member of the Discover Group, on the other hand, relating to the same occurrence, Morgan Stanley and Discover agree to defend jointly, that in the event there is a conflict of interest which in the reasonable opinion of either party would otherwise prevent the conduct of that joint defense, the parties shall cooperate to pursue coverage under such Shared Policy pursuant to appropriate arrangements (which may require separate counsel) as permitted by such Shared Policy. Nothing in this Section 4.08 will be construed to limit or otherwise alter in any way the indemnity obligations of the parties, including those created by this Agreement, by operation of law or otherwise.
. Agreement for Waiver of Conflict and Shared Defense.
provided
 
Section 4.09To the extent that either Morgan Stanley or Discover is responsible for the Claims Administration for any claims under any Shared Policies after the Distribution Time, such party shall use its reasonable efforts to mitigate the amount of any settlements of such claims.
. Duty to Mitigate Settlements.
Section 4.10An insurance carrier that would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim shall not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto, or, solely by virtue of the provisions of this Article 4, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto, it being expressly understood and agreed that no insurance carrier or any Third Party shall be entitled to a benefit (i.e., a benefit such Person would not be entitled to receive had the Distribution not occurred or in the absence of the provisions of this Article 4) by virtue of the provisions hereof.
. Non-Waiver of Rights to Coverage.
Section 5.01. . (a) For a period of six years after the Distribution Date, each Group shall afford promptly the other Group and its agents and, to the extent required by Applicable Law, authorized representatives of any Governmental Authority of competent jurisdiction, reasonable access during normal business hours to its books of account, financial and other records (including accountant's work papers, to the extent consents have been obtained), information, employees and auditors to the extent necessary or useful for such other Group in connection with any audit, investigation, dispute or litigation, complying with their obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, any regulatory proceeding, any regulatory filings, complying with reporting disclosure requirements or any other requirements imposed by any Governmental Authority or any other reasonable business purpose of the Group requesting such access; that any such access shall not unreasonably interfere with the conduct of the business of the Group providing such access; that in the event any party reasonably determines that affording any such access to the other party would be commercially detrimental in any material respect or violate any Applicable Law or agreement to which such party or member of its Group is a party, or waive any attorney-client privilege applicable to such party or any member of its Group, the parties shall use reasonable efforts to permit the compliance with such request in a manner that avoids any such harm or consequence.
Access to Information
provided
provided further
(b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, until the end of the first full Discover fiscal year occurring after the Distribution Date (and for a reasonable period of time afterwards as required for each party to prepare consolidated financial statements or complete a financial statement audit for the fiscal year during which the Distribution Date occurs), each party shall use reasonable efforts, to cooperate with the other party's information requests to enable the other party to meet its timetable for dissemination of its earnings
 
releases, financial statements and enable such other party's auditors to timely complete their audit of the annual financial statements and review of the quarterly financial statements.
Section 5.02. . (a) (i) As of the Distribution, the applicable member of the Discover Group shall assume and thereafter be responsible for all Liabilities that may result from the Discover Assumed Actions and all fees and costs relating to the defense of the Discover Assumed Actions, including attorneys' fees and costs incurred after the Distribution. "" means (x) the Actions set forth in Part A of and (y) those Actions primarily relating to the Discover Business in which any member of the Morgan Stanley Group or any Affiliate of a member of the Morgan Stanley Group, other than any member of the Discover Group, is a defendant or the party against whom the claim or investigation is directed; and (ii) as of the Distribution, the applicable member of the Morgan Stanley Group shall assume and thereafter be responsible for all Liabilities that may result from the Morgan Stanley Assumed Actions and all fees and costs relating to the defense of the Morgan Stanley Assumed Actions, including attorneys' fees and costs incurred after the Distribution. "" means (x) the Actions set forth in Part B of and (y) those Actions primarily related to the Morgan Stanley Business in which any member of the Discover Group or any Affiliate of a member of the Discover Group, other than any member of the Morgan Stanley Group, is a defendant or the party against whom the claim or investigation is directed.
Litigation Cooperation
Discover Assumed Actions
Schedule 3
Morgan Stanley Assumed Actions
Schedule 3
(b) The applicable member of the Morgan Stanley Group shall transfer the Transferred Actions to the applicable member of the Discover Group, and the applicable member of the Discover Group shall be responsible for such Transferred Actions and receive and have the benefit of all of the proceeds of such Transferred Actions. "" means those Actions set forth in Part C of
Transferred Actions
Schedule 3
1
.
(c) Each party agrees that at all times from and after the Distribution if an Action relating primarily to its Business is commenced by a third party naming a member of each Group as defendants thereto, then such action shall be deemed to be a Discover Assumed Action (in the case of an Action primarily related to the Discover Business) or a Morgan Stanley Assumed Action (in the case of an Action primarily related to the Morgan Stanley Business) and the party as to which the Action primarily relates shall use its reasonable efforts to cause the other party or member of its Group to be removed from such Action.
(d) The parties agree that at all times from and after the Distribution if an Action which does not relate primarily to either party's Business is commenced by a third party naming a member of each Group as defendants thereto, then the parties shall cooperate and consult to the extent necessary or advisable with respect to such Action.
 
 
(e) Each Group shall use reasonable efforts to make available to the other Group and its accountants, counsel, and other designated representatives, upon written request, its directors, officers, employees and representatives as witnesses, and shall otherwise cooperate with the other Group, to the extent reasonably required in connection with any Action arising out of either Group's Business prior to the Distribution Date in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved.
Section 5.03. . (a) Each Group providing information or witnesses to the other Group, or otherwise incurring any expense in connection with cooperating, under Section 5.01 or Section 5.02 shall be entitled to receive from the recipient thereof, upon the presentation of invoices therefor, payment for all out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including attorney's fees but excluding reimbursement for general overhead, salary and employee benefits) actually incurred in providing such access, information, witnesses or cooperation.
Reimbursement; Ownership of Information
(b) All information owned by one party that is provided to the other party under Section 5.01 or Section 5.02 shall be deemed to remain the property of the providing party. Unless specifically set forth herein, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to grant or confer rights of license or otherwise in any such information.
Section 5.04. . Except as otherwise required by Applicable Law or agreed to in writing, each party shall, and shall cause the members of its Group to, retain, in accordance with the practice of such party applicable to the retention of its own information as in effect from time to time, any and all information in its possession or control relating to the other Group's Business. Neither party shall destroy or otherwise dispose of any such information, subject to such retention practice, unless, prior to such destruction or disposal, the party proposing such destruction or disposal (the "") provides not less than 30 days' prior written notice to the other party (the ""), specifying the information proposed to be destroyed or disposed of and the scheduled date for such destruction or disposal. If the Receiving Party shall request in writing prior to the scheduled date for such destruction or disposal that any of the information proposed to be destroyed or disposed of be delivered to the Receiving Party, the Disposing Party shall promptly arrange for the delivery of such of the information as was requested at the expense of the Receiving Party; that in the event that the Disposing Party reasonably determines that any such provision of information would violate any Applicable Law or agreement to which such party or member of its Group is a party, or waive any attorney-client privilege applicable to such party or any member of its Group, the parties shall use reasonable efforts to permit the compliance with such request in a manner that avoids any such harm or
Retention of Records
Disposing Party
Receiving Party
provided
 
consequence. Any records or documents that were subject to a litigation hold prior to the Distribution Date must be retained by the applicable party until such party is notified by the other party that the litigation hold is no longer in effect.
Section 5.05. . Each party acknowledges that it may have in its possession, and, in connection with this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, may receive, confidential information of the other party or any member of its Group (including information in the possession of such other party relating to its clients or customers) (""). Each party shall hold and shall cause its directors, officers, employees, agents, consultants and advisors ("") to hold in strict confidence and not to use except as permitted by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement all such Confidential Information concerning the other party unless (i) such party or any of its Representatives is compelled to disclose such Confidential Information by judicial or administrative process or by other requirements of Applicable Law or (ii) such Confidential Information can be shown to have been (A) in the public domain through no fault of such party or any of its Representatives, (B) lawfully acquired after the Distribution Date on a non-confidential basis from other sources not known by such party to be under any legal obligation to keep such information confidential or (C) developed by such party or any of its Representatives without the use of any Confidential Information of the other party. Notwithstanding the foregoing, such party may disclose such Confidential Information to its Representatives so long as such Persons are informed by such party of the confidential nature of such Confidential Information and are directed by such party to treat such information confidentially. The obligation of each party and its Representatives to hold any such Confidential Information in confidence shall be satisfied if they exercise the same level of care with respect to such Confidential Information as they would with respect to their own proprietary information. If such party or any of its Representatives becomes legally compelled to disclose any documents or information subject to this Section 5.05, such party will promptly notify the other party and, upon request, use reasonable efforts to cooperate with the other party's efforts to seek a protective order or other remedy. If no such protective order or other remedy is obtained or if the other party waives in writing such party's compliance with this Section 5.05, such party may furnish only that portion of the information which it concludes, after consultation with counsel, is legally required to be disclosed and will exercise its reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance that confidential treatment will be accorded such information. Each party agrees to be responsible for any breach of this Section 5.05 by it and its Representatives.
Confidentiality
Confidential Information
Representatives
Section 5.06(a) The parties acknowledge that members of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and members of the Discover Group, on the other hand, may possess documents or other information regarding the other Group that is or may be subject to the attorney-client privilege, the work product doctrine or common interest privilege (collectively, ""; and such documents and other information collectively, the ""). Each party agrees to use reasonable efforts to protect
. Privileged Information.
Privileges
Privileged Information
 
and maintain, and to cause their respective Affiliates to protect and maintain, any applicable claim to Privilege in order to prevent any of the other party's Privileged Information from being disclosed or used in a manner inconsistent with such Privilege without the other party's consent. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the parties and their respective Affiliates shall not, without the other party's prior written consent, (i) waive any Privilege with respect to any of the other party's Privileged Information, (ii) fail to defend any Privilege with respect to any such Privileged Information, or (iii) fail to take any other actions necessary to preserve any Privilege with respect to any such Privileged Information.
(b) Upon receipt by either party of any subpoena, discovery or other request that calls for the production or disclosure of Privileged Information of the other party, such party shall promptly notify the other party of the existence of the request and shall provide the other party a reasonable opportunity to review the information and to assert any rights it may have under this Section 5.06 or otherwise to prevent the production or disclosure of such Privileged Information. Each party agrees that it will not produce or disclose any information that may be covered by a Privilege of the party under this Section 5.06 unless (i) the other party has provided its written consent to such production or disclosure (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld) or (ii) a court of competent jurisdiction has entered a final, nonappealable order finding that the information is not entitled to protection under any applicable Privilege.
Section 5.07(a) From and after the Distribution Date, to the extent required by Applicable Law, each of Morgan Stanley and Discover shall, and shall cause their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates and its and their Representatives, to only use Confidential Personal Information: (i) in connection with the receiving party's performance of this Agreement and/or as described in an Ancillary Agreement or any agreement contemplated hereby; or (ii) in compliance with any express written instructions given by the party from which the Confidential Personal Information originates, as may be modified from time to time. Upon completion of either party's use of Confidential Personal Information pursuant to this subsection, the receiving party will maintain the Confidential Personal Information in compliance with the applicable requirements of this Section 5.07 and with its reasonable record retention and destruction policies.
. Confidential Personal Information.
(b)        (i) Each of Morgan Stanley and Discover and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates will comply with Applicable Law with respect to the Confidential Personal Information received by it from the disclosing party and shall maintain procedures reasonably designed to detect and respond to Personal Information Incidents, including procedures for corrective action.
(ii) If a receiving party uses agents or subcontractors who will access, use or otherwise have control over Confidential Personal Information of the disclosing party, the receiving party will enter into a
 
written agreement with such agents and subcontractors that will include confidentiality obligations that are at least as restrictive as those provisions to which the receiving party subjects such agents or subcontractors who have access to the receiving party's Confidential Personal Information.
(iii) Subject to any other obligations either Morgan Stanley or Discover may have under Applicable Law, each of Morgan Stanley and Discover agrees to promptly notify the other party upon such party's discovery of a potential or actual Personal Information Incident. Each of Morgan Stanley and Discover understands and agrees that the receiving party or its Affiliates may be required to report Personal Information Incidents to affected individuals and/or any governmental authority or agency having supervisory or oversight authority over the receiving party and the disclosing party may provide such reports, that, the receiving party agrees that it will not notify any affected individuals or authority or agency until the receiving party first consults with the disclosing party and the disclosing party has had an opportunity to review any such notice.
provided
(c) In addition to any other obligations a receiving party may have under this Agreement, in the event of a Personal Information Incident, at the request of the disclosing party, a receiving party shall: (i) assist in the identification of affected persons and relevant jurisdictions; (ii) reimburse the disclosing party for any costs associated with providing affected persons with any assistance (credit monitoring, etc.) as the disclosing party deems reasonable; and (iii) undertake a procedural review/audit to determine any appropriate corrective measures to avoid a similar situation recurring, and report to the disclosing party the corrective measures undertaken.
Section 6.01. . From and after the Distribution Date, the parties shall use reasonable efforts to settle any Intercompany Accounts that are not settled as of the Distribution within 90 days after the Distribution.
Settlement of Intercompany Accounts
Section 7.01(a) Effective at and after the Distribution, Discover shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Morgan Stanley Group and the respective directors, officers, employees and Affiliates of each Person in the Morgan Stanley Group (the "") from and against any and all Losses incurred or
. Discover Indemnification of the Morgan Stanley Group.
Morgan Stanley Indemnitees
 
suffered by any of the Morgan Stanley Indemnitees arising out of or in connection with (i) any of the Discover Liabilities, or the failure of any member of the Discover Group to pay, perform or otherwise discharge any of the Discover Liabilities, (ii) any of Discover's Financial Instruments, and (iii) any breach by Discover of this Agreement.
(b) Except to the extent set forth in Section 7.02(b), Discover shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the Morgan Stanley Indemnitees and each Person, if any, who controls any Morgan Stanley Indemnitee within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act from and against any and all Losses caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Form 10 or any amendment thereof or the Information Statement (as amended or supplemented if Discover shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
Section 7.02(a) Effective at and after the Distribution, Morgan Stanley shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Discover Group and the respective directors, officers, employees and Affiliates of each Person in the Discover Group (the "") from and against any and all Losses incurred or suffered by any of the Discover Indemnitees and arising out of or in connection with (i) any of the Morgan Stanley Liabilities, or the failure of any member of the Morgan Stanley Group to pay, perform or otherwise discharge any of the Morgan Stanley Liabilities, (ii) any of Morgan Stanley's Financial Instruments, and (iii) any breach by Morgan Stanley of this Agreement.
. Morgan Stanley Indemnification of Discover Group.
Discover Indemnitees
(b) Morgan Stanley shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless each of the Discover Indemnitees and each Person, if any, who controls any Discover Indemnitee within the meaning of either Section 15 of the Securities Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act from and against any and all Losses caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Form 10 or any amendment thereof or the Information Statement (as amended or supplemented if Discover shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such Losses are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission arising out of information set forth in .
Schedule 4
Section 7.03. . (a) The party seeking indemnification under Section 7.01 or Section 7.02 (the "") agrees to give prompt notice to the party against whom indemnity is sought (the "") of the assertion of any claim, or the commencement of any suit, action or
Procedures
Indemnified Party
Indemnifying Party
 
proceeding ("") in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder and will provide the Indemnifying Party such information with respect thereto that the Indemnifying Party may reasonably request. The failure to so notify the Indemnifying Party shall not relieve the Indemnifying Party of its obligations hereunder, except to the extent such failure shall have materially prejudiced the Indemnifying Party.
Claim
(b) The Indemnifying Party shall be entitled to participate in the defense of any Claim asserted by any third party ("") and, subject to the limitations set forth in this Section 7.03, if it so notifies the Indemnified Party no later than 30 days after receipt of the notice described in Section 7.03(a), shall be entitled to control and appoint lead counsel for such defense, in each case at its expense. If the Indemnifying Party does not, the Indemnified Party shall have the right to defend or contest such Third-Party Claim through counsel chosen by the Indemnified Party reasonably acceptable to the Indemnifying Party, subject to the provisions of this Section 7.03. The Indemnified Party shall provide the Indemnifying Party and such counsel with such information regarding such Third-Party Claim as either of them may reasonably request (which request may be general or specific).
Third-Party Claim
(c) If the Indemnifying Party shall assume the control of the defense of any Third-Party Claim in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7.03, (i) the Indemnifying Party shall obtain the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) before entering into any settlement of such Third-Party Claim, if the settlement does not release the Indemnified Party from all liabilities and obligations with respect to such Third-Party Claim or the settlement imposes injunctive or other equitable relief against the Indemnified Party and (ii) the Indemnified Party shall be entitled to participate in (but not control) the defense of such Third-Party Claim and to employ separate counsel of its choice for such purpose. The fees and expenses of such separate counsel shall be paid by the Indemnified Party.
(d) Each party shall cooperate, and cause their respective Affiliates to cooperate, in the defense or prosecution of any Third-Party Claim and shall furnish or cause to be furnished such records, information and testimony, and attend such conferences, discovery proceedings, hearings, trials or appeals, as may be reasonably requested in connection therewith.
(e) Each Indemnified Party shall use reasonable efforts to collect any amounts available under insurance coverage, or from any other Person alleged to be responsible, for any Losses payable under Section 7.01 or Section 7.02.
(f) If any Third Party Claim shall be brought against a member of each Group, then such Action shall be deemed to be a Discover Assumed Action or a Morgan Stanley Assumed Action in accordance with Article 5, and the party as to which the Action primarily relates shall be deemed to be the Indemnifying Party for the purposes of this Article 7 and be entitled to control and appoint lead counsel for the defense of such Action.
 
Section 7.04Any indemnification amount pursuant to Section 7.01 or Section 7.02 shall be paid (i) net of any amounts recovered by the Indemnified Party under applicable insurance policies or from any other Person alleged to be responsible therefor, and (ii) taking into account any tax benefit actually realized and any tax cost incurred by the Indemnified Party arising from the incurrence or payment of the relevant Losses. Morgan Stanley and Discover agree that, for federal income tax purposes, any payment made pursuant to this Article 7 will be treated as an adjustment to the contributions to Discover, or, if appropriate, the distributions from Discover to MSDCI, occurring immediately prior to the Distribution. If the Indemnified Party receives any amounts under applicable insurance policies, or from any other Person alleged to be responsible for any Losses, subsequent to an indemnification payment by the Indemnifying Party, then such Indemnified Party shall promptly reimburse the Indemnifying Party for any payment made or expense incurred by such Indemnifying Party in connection with providing such indemnification payment up to the amount received by the Indemnified Party, net of any expenses incurred by such Indemnified Party in collecting such amount. The Indemnifying Party shall not be liable for any Losses under Section 7.01 or Section 7.02 to the extent they are special, indirect, incidental, consequential or punitive damages or lost profits.
. Calculation of Indemnification Amount.
Section 7.05. . If for any reason the indemnification provided for in Section 7.01 or Section 7.02 is unavailable to any Indemnified Party, or insufficient to hold it harmless, then the Indemnifying Party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnified Party as a result of such Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and the Discover Group, on the other hand, in connection with the conduct, statement or omission that resulted in such Losses. In case of any Losses arising out of or related to information contained in the Form 10 or any amendment thereof or the Information Statement (as amended or supplemented), the relative fault of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and the Discover Group, on the other hand, shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission of a material fact relates to information supplied by Morgan Stanley or Discover. The parties hereby agree that information set forth in shall be deemed supplied by Morgan Stanley, and all other information shall be deemed supplied by Discover.
Contribution
Schedule 4
Section 7.06. . The remedies provided for in this Article 7 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any Indemnified Party at law or in equity; that the procedures set forth in Sections 7.03 and 7.04 shall be the exclusive procedures governing any indemnity action brought under this Agreement.
Non-Exclusivity of Remedies
provided
 
Section 7.07. The rights and obligations of any Indemnified Party or Indemnifying Party under this Article 7 shall survive the sale or other transfer of any party of any of its assets, business or liabilities.
Survival of Indemnities.
Section 8.01Any notice, instruction, direction or demand under the terms of this Agreement required to be in writing shall be duly given upon delivery, if delivered by hand, facsimile transmission, or mail, to the following addresses:
. Notices.
If to Morgan Stanley to:
Morgan Stanley
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
Attn: Martin M. Cohen, Director of Company Law
Facsimile: (212) 507-3334
with a copy to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Attn: Paul Kingsley, Esq./Jeffrey Small, Esq.
Facsimile: (212) 450-3277/(212) 450-3500
If to Discover to:
Discover Financial Services
2500 Lake Cook Road
Riverwoods, IL 60015
Attn: General CounselContracts
Facsimile: (224) 405-4584
or to such other addresses or telecopy numbers as may be specified by like notice to the other party. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed given, (a) when delivered in person or by courier or a courier services, (b) if sent by facsimile transmission (receipt confirmed) on a Business Day prior to 5 p.m. in the place of receipt, on the date of transmission (or, if sent after 5 p.m., on the following Business Day) or (c) if mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested), on the date specified on the return receipt.
Section 8.02. . (a) Any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, and only if, such amendment or waiver
Amendments; No Waivers
 
is in writing and signed, in the case of an amendment, by Morgan Stanley and Discover, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 8.03. . Except as specifically provided otherwise in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, all costs and expenses incurred by the Morgan Stanley Group in connection with the Distribution and related transactions shall be paid by Morgan Stanley, and all costs and expenses incurred by the Discover Group in connection with the Distribution and related transactions shall be paid by Discover.
Expenses
Section 8.04. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns; that neither party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of the other parties hereto. If any party or any of its successors or permitted assigns (i) shall consolidate with or merge into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) shall transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provisions shall be made so that the successors and assigns of such party shall assume all of the obligations of such party under the Distribution Documents.
Successors and Assigns
provided
Section 8.05. . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of laws rules thereof.
Governing Law
Section 8.06. . This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication). Except for the indemnification and release provisions of Article 7, neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof is intended to confer any rights, benefits, remedies, obligations, or liabilities hereunder upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns.
Counterparts; Effectiveness; Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
Section 8.07. . This Agreement and the other Distribution Documents constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings and negotiations, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof. No representation, inducement, promise, understanding, condition or warranty not set forth herein or in the other Distribution Documents has been made or relied upon by any party hereto or any member of their Group with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Distribution Documents. To the extent that the provisions of this Agreement are inconsistent with the provisions of any other Distribution Document, the provisions of such other Distribution Document shall prevail.
Entire Agreement
Section 8.08. . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement shall not govern tax matters, which shall be exclusively governed by the Tax Sharing Agreement, the U.S. Employee Matters Agreement, the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement and the U.K. Employee Matters Agreement.
Tax Matters
Section 8.09. . Any Action seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or any other New York State court sitting in New York County, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding which is brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 8.01 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
Jurisdiction
Section 8.10THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
Section 8.11.Except as otherwise contemplated hereby or by the other Distribution Documents or as set forth in , all prior agreements or arrangements between (or relating to) any member(s) of the Discover Group or the Discover Business, on the one hand, and any member(s) of the Morgan Stanley Group or the Morgan Stanley Business, on the other hand (other than any agreement to which any Person other than the parties hereto and the members of their respective Groups is also a party) shall be terminated effective as of the Distribution, if not theretofore terminated, and shall be of no further force or effect (including any provision thereof that purports to survive termination).
Existing Agreements.
Schedule 5
 
Section 8.12. . Notwithstanding any provisions hereof, the Morgan Stanley Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, at any time prior to the Distribution terminate this Agreement and/or abandon the Distribution, whether or not it has theretofore approved this Agreement and/or the Distribution. In the event this Agreement is terminated pursuant to the preceding sentence, neither party nor any of its directors or officers shall have any liability or further obligation to the other party.
Termination
Section 8.13. . If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be declared invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any party. Upon such a declaration, the parties shall modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability
Section 8.14. . All covenants and agreements of the parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Distribution Date indefinitely, unless a specific survival or other applicable period is expressly set forth herein.
Survival
Section 8.15. . The captions herein are included for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof.
Captions
Section 8.16. . Each party to this Agreement acknowledges and agrees that damages for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement would be inadequate and irreparable harm would occur. In recognition of this fact, each party agrees that, if there is a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any damages, the other nonbreaching party to this Agreement, without posting any bond, shall be entitled to seek and obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, attachment, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available to obligate the breaching party (i) to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) if the breaching party is unable, for whatever reason, to perform those obligations, to take any other actions as are necessary, advisable or appropriate to give the other party to this Agreement the economic effect which comes as close as possible to the performance of those obligations (including, but not limited to, transferring, or granting liens on, the assets of the breaching party to secure the performance by the breaching party of those obligations).
Specific Performance
 
Section 8.17. . Each party shall cause to be performed all actions, agreements and obligations set forth herein to be performed by any member of such party's Group.
Performance
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
 
(a) . As used herein, the following terms have the following meanings:
Definitions
"" means, with respect to any Person, any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such other Person; that for purposes of this Schedule 2, any Person who was a member of both Groups prior to the Distribution shall be deemed to be an Affiliate only of the Group of which such Person is a member following the Distribution. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing. Any contrary provision of this Schedule 2 notwithstanding, members of the Morgan Stanley Group, on the one hand, and members of the Discover Group, on the other hand, shall not be deemed to be Affiliates of the other.
Affiliate
provided
"" means such portion based on the fraction that results from dividing (A) twelve by (B) the lesser of (x) the sum of twelve and the quotient obtained from dividing (i) the number of days from but excluding June 30, 2007 to and including the date of the Resolution by (ii) 365 or (y) fifteen.
Allocable Portion
"" means, with respect to any amount of Proceeds payable to Morgan Stanley, the product of (i) such amount and (ii) the hypothetical highest marginal rate of federal, state and local income tax applicable to Discover and its Affiliates with respect to such Proceeds in the taxable year in which such Proceeds are required to be taken into account by Discover for tax purposes. For the avoidance of doubt, the hypothetical highest marginal rate referred to in clause (ii) above shall be determined (x) based on Discover's state and local income tax rate after taking into account the effect of applicable allocation and apportionment rules and (y) taking into account the deductibility of state and local income taxes for federal tax purposes.
Applicable Tax Amount
"" means all cash received by Discover or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Visa/MasterCard Litigation (other than Cash Equivalent Proceeds).
Cash Proceeds
"" means any non-cash property that can readily be expressed in dollar value (e.g., marketing fees, incentive payments, reduction of expenses and any other credits), in each case
Cash Equivalent Proceeds
received by Discover or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Visa/MasterCard Litigation after the date of the Resolution. For the avoidance of doubt, if any such business arrangements shall include the payment by Discover to Visa or MasterCard of third party assessment fees at a rate of less than 7 basis points, the amount of such shortfall shall be considered "Cash Equivalent Proceeds."
"" means, (i) the direct or indirect acquisition (by merger, consolidation, business combination or otherwise) by any Person or group of Persons of beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-1 and Rule 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 50% or more of the Total Voting Power of Discover, (ii) any merger, consolidation or other business combination of Discover, or a Subsidiary of Discover, with any Person after giving effect to which (x) the shareholders of Discover, immediately prior to such transaction do not own at least 50% of the Total Voting Power of the ultimate parent entity of the parties to such transaction or (y) individuals who were directors of Discover, immediately prior to such transaction (or their designees) do not constitute a majority of the board of directors of such ultimate parent entity, and (iii) the direct or indirect acquisition by any Person or group of Persons of all or substantially all of the assets of Discover.
Change of Control
"" means Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation.
Discover
"" means Discover and its Subsidiaries.
Discover Group
"" means the proposed distribution to the holders of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Morgan Stanley (the "Morgan Stanley Common Stock") as of June 18, 2007, by means of a dividend, 100% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of Discover (the "Discover Common Stock"), on the basis of one share of Discover Common Stock for every two then issued and outstanding shares of Morgan Stanley Common Stock.
Distribution
pro rata
"" means all documented out-of-pocket expenses actually incurred by Discover or any of its Affiliates after June 30, 2007 to and including the date of the Resolution that relate to services provided or activities performed in the investigation or prosecution of the Visa/MasterCard Litigation.
Expenses
"" means, as the context requires, the Discover Group or the Morgan Stanley Group.
Group
"" means Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation.
Morgan Stanley
"" means Morgan Stanley and its Subsidiaries (other than any Subsidiary or member of, or other entity in, the Discover Group).
Morgan Stanley Group
"" means any non-cash property (other than Cash Equivalent Proceeds) and other non-monetary relief or rights (e.g., changes in business practices), in each case, received by Discover or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Visa/MasterCard Litigation.
Non-Cash Proceeds
"" means an individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a governmental or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means Cash Proceeds and Cash Equivalent Proceeds.
Proceeds
"" means, with respect to any defendant, any settlement agreement with such defendant to which Discover or any of its Affiliates is a party, or the final and non-appealable order of any court of competent jurisdiction with respect to such defendant, in each case, relating to the Visa/MasterCard Litigation.
Resolution
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person. For clarity, Goldfish Bank Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales, Goldfish Card Services Limited, a private limited company incorporated in England and Wales, Goldfish Credit Enhancing, Inc., a Delaware corporation, Goldfish Credit Servicing, Inc, a Delaware corporation, and Goldfish Procurement, Inc., a Delaware corporation, are Subsidiaries of Discover for purposes of this Schedule 2.
Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to any Person, the total combined voting power of all securities of such Person entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such Person.
Total Voting Power
"" means the litigation Discover is pursuing as of the date hereof against Visa U.S.A., Inc. ("Visa") and MasterCard Worldwide ("MasterCard").
Visa/MasterCard Litigation
(b) Promptly following any Resolution, Discover shall deliver to Morgan Stanley (i) true, complete and correct copies of all documentation relating to the Resolution, and (ii) a statement (the "") certified by an executive officer setting forth (x) the amount of Cash Proceeds and Cash Equivalent Proceeds to be received by Discover pursuant to the Resolution and
Resolution Statement
the timing of payment thereof and the amount of Expenses and (y) a description in reasonable detail of all business arrangements of the type described in the definition of Cash Equivalent Proceeds that are entered into in connection with such Resolution.
(c) All Proceeds received by Discover or any of its Affiliates shall be applied as follows:
(i) first, all such Proceeds shall be retained by Discover until Discover shall have retained an amount equal to all Expenses incurred by Discover;
(ii) second, the next $700 million of such Proceeds (any unpaid portion thereof to be increased at an annual rate of 6% from the date of the Distribution until paid in full) shall be paid to Morgan Stanley (net of the Applicable Tax Amount in respect of such Proceeds);
(iii) third, the next $800 million of such Proceeds shall be retained by Discover;
(iv) thereafter, any such Proceeds shall be shared equally by the parties, so that 50% of any such Proceeds shall be paid to Morgan Stanley (net of the Applicable Tax Amount in respect of such share of such Proceeds) and 50% of any such Proceeds shall be retained by Discover;
that (x) the Proceeds in respect of which Morgan Stanley shall receive payments under this subsection (c) in connection with any Resolution shall not exceed the Allocable Portion of such Proceeds, and (y) the Proceeds in respect of which Morgan Stanley shall receive payments under this subsection (c) in connection with all Resolutions shall not exceed $1.5 billion in the aggregate.
provided
(d) If the aggregate amount of the Allocable Portion of Cash Proceeds and Cash Equivalent Proceeds available to be taken into account in the calculation of the amounts payable to Morgan Stanley pursuant to subsection (c)(ii) above shall be less than $700 million, as such amount shall be increased as contemplated by clause (c)(ii) above (the ""), then Non-Cash Proceeds shall also be taken into account (and treated as Proceeds for purposes of such clause), but only to the extent of such shortfall, in calculating the amounts payable to Morgan Stanley pursuant to clause (c)(ii) (the ""). In such event, in connection with the delivery of the Resolution Statement, Discover shall provide all documentation relating to Non-Cash Proceeds to an independent appraiser mutually acceptable to Morgan Stanley and Discover, who shall be directed by the parties to determine the fair market value thereof, measured as of the date of the Resolution, within 90 days (the ""). Each of Morgan Stanley and Discover shall cooperate fully and make available to the appraiser such information as the appraiser may reasonably request. The Appraisal will be final and binding upon the parties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any
Minimum Proceeds
Top-Up Calculation
Appraisal
Resolution that would otherwise result in a Top-Up Calculation involves only one of Visa or MasterCard and the Visa/MasterCard Litigation is still unresolved and pending at that time against the other defendant, then (x) the Top-Up Calculation will not be performed and the amount payable to Morgan Stanley in connection with such Resolution shall take into account only Cash Proceeds and Cash Equivalent Proceeds, and (y) the Top-Up Calculation shall instead be performed, if applicable, at the time of the final Resolution with respect to the remaining defendant, at which time all Non-Cash Proceeds received with respect to any defendant shall be taken into account.
(e) If any Resolution shall occur in connection with or following a Change of Control and, after taking into account the Allocable Portion of the Proceeds arising in connection with such Resolution, the aggregate Proceeds taken into account in the calculation of amounts payable under clause (c)(ii) above shall be less than the Minimum Proceeds (after giving effect to the provisions of subsection (d) hereof), the amount payable to Morgan Stanley hereunder shall be increased to the amount that would have been payable if the Minimum Proceeds had been received.
(f) To the extent Discover is required to pay tax with respect to any portion of the Proceeds (or the Non-Cash Proceeds treated as Proceeds hereunder) that would otherwise be payable to Morgan Stanley under subsection (c) prior to the time such Proceeds (or Non-Cash Proceeds) are received by Discover, the amount otherwise payable by Discover to Morgan Stanley under subsection (c) shall be reduced to reflect a pro rata portion of the cost (net of any tax benefit) to Discover of the payment of tax in advance of the receipt of such Proceeds, computed using a discount rate of 6%.
(g) All amounts payable to Morgan Stanley pursuant to subsection (c) shall be paid by Discover by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Morgan Stanley promptly, and in any event within 30 days, following the end of each fiscal quarter in respect of which Discover or any of its Affiliates receives any Proceeds. Any such amounts not paid when due shall accrue interest from and including the 30
th
day following the end of the applicable fiscal quarter to but excluding the date of payment, at a rate per annum equal to 6% (calculated on the basis of actual number of days elapsed in a 360-day year).
(h) Discover shall have sole control over the investigation, prosecution and resolution of the Visa/MasterCard Litigation; that Discover shall direct its outside counsel to provide Morgan Stanley with regular reports, in writing, at least on a monthly basis, as to the status of and significant developments in the Visa/MasterCard Litigation, including any settlement discussions or negotiations, and such other information as Morgan Stanley may reasonably require relating to the Visa/MasterCard Litigation.
provided
(i) None of Morgan Stanley's rights relating to the Special Dividend may be assigned or otherwise transferred, in whole or in part, to any Person (other
than an Affiliate of Morgan Stanley) without the prior consent of Discover. Any rights of Morgan Stanley relating to the Special Dividend shall inure to the benefit of its successors and permitted assigns (including, without limitation, any Person which may acquire all or substantially all of Morgan Stanley's assets or business, or with or into which Morgan Stanley may be consolidated or merged).
(j) The provisions contained in this Schedule 2 shall survive indefinitely and shall be binding upon Discover and its successors.

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement is entered into as of the 30th day of June, 2007 between Morgan Stanley (""), a Delaware corporation, on behalf of itself and the members of the Distributing Group, as defined below, and Discover Financial Services (""), a Delaware corporation, on behalf of itself and the members of the Controlled Group, as defined below.
Distributing
Controlled
WHEREAS, pursuant to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, certain members of the Controlled Group presently file certain tax returns on an affiliated, consolidated, combined, unitary, fiscal unity or other, group basis (including as permitted by Section 1501 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "")) with certain members of the Distributing Group;
Code
WHEREAS, Distributing and Controlled entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of June 29, 2007 (the ""), providing for the distribution by Distributing to its shareholders of all of the common stock of Controlled that is held by Distributing and certain other matters;
Separation Agreement
WHEREAS, Distributing and Controlled desire to set forth their agreement on the rights and obligations of Distributing, Controlled and the members of the Distributing Group and the Controlled Group, respectively, with respect to (A) the handling and allocation of federal, state, local and foreign taxes (other than the U.K. taxes governed by the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement) incurred in taxable periods beginning prior to the Distribution Date, (B) taxes resulting from transactions effected in connection with the Distribution, including but not limited to the Distribution and the transactions (i) described in or contemplated by the private letter ruling requests, dated March 7, 2007, March 22, 2007 and April 12, 2007 (collectively, with all attachments, exhibits and supplements thereto
dated March 21, 2007, April 17, 2007, April 26, 2007, April 27, 2007 and May 31, 2007, the ""), submitted by Distributing to the IRS and the FTB (in each case as defined below), (ii) effected pursuant to, or otherwise described in or contemplated by, the Separation Agreement (including, but not limited to, Schedule 1 thereto) or any Ancillary Agreement and (iii) described in or otherwise contemplated by the Form 10 (such transactions described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) are collectively referred to as the ""), and (C) various other tax matters;
Ruling Request
Restructuring
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties agree as follows:
.
1. Definitions
As used in this Agreement:
(a)
"" shall mean an active trade or business relied upon in the Ruling Request in connection with the Restructuring or the Distribution.
Active Business
"" or "" shall mean, for purposes of determining the timing of the incurrence of any Tax liability or the realization of a Refund (or any related income tax or other Tax cost or benefit) in respect of any payment, transaction, occurrence or event, the time at which the amount of income taxes paid (or Refund realized) is increased above (or reduced below) the amount of income taxes that would otherwise have been required to be paid (or Refund that would otherwise have been realized) but for such payment, transaction, occurrence or event.
Actually Realized
Actually Realizes
"" of any Person shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership or other entity directly or indirectly owning more than 50 percent (by vote or value) of, owned more than 50 percent (by vote or value) by, or under more than 50 percent (by vote or value) common ownership with, such Person.
Affiliate
"" shall mean an additional amount necessary to reflect the hypothetical Tax consequences of the receipt or accrual of any payment, using the maximum statutory rate (or rates, in the case of an item that affects more than one Tax) applicable to the recipient of such payment for the relevant Taxable year, reflecting for example, the effect of the deductions available for interest paid or accrued and for Taxes, such as state and local income taxes.
After-Tax Amount
"" shall mean the alternative minimum tax, within the meaning of Section 55 of the Code.
AMT
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Separation Agreement.
Ancillary Agreement
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the first "whereas" clause in this Agreement.
Code
"" shall mean the apportionment factor reflected on the applicable consolidated, combined or unitary state or local income tax return and utilized in computing the combined, consolidated or unitary state or local income tax liability.
Combined Apportionment Factor
"" shall mean the ongoing Tax Proceedings between Sears and Controlled.
Company Proceedings
"" shall mean a Pre-Distribution Period Return filed in respect of federal income taxes by a Consolidated Group.
Consolidated Federal Return
"" shall mean any group consisting of (i) at least one member of the Distributing Group that filed (or will file) any Pre-Distribution Period Return that reflects the income, assets or operations of any member of the Controlled Group or (ii) at least one member of the Controlled Group that filed (or will file) any Pre-Distribution Period Return that reflects the income, assets or operations of any member of the Distributing Group.
Consolidated Group
"" shall mean a Pre-Distribution Period Return filed in respect of state or local income taxes by a Consolidated Group.
Consolidated State Return
"" shall mean one or more of Controlled and (i) any Person that is an Affiliate of Controlled immediately after the Distribution and (ii) to the extent not previously included by (i), any Person that was owned directly or indirectly by Controlled prior to the Distribution for such period of ownership by Controlled, including for both (i) and (ii) any predecessors thereto; provided, however, that for purposes of determining whether an entity is a member of the Controlled Group, a transfer of beneficial ownership of an entity shall be treated as a transfer of title, regardless of whether title has actually passed.
Controlled Group
"" shall mean one or more of Distributing and its Affiliates other than those entities comprising the Controlled Group.
Distributing Group
"" shall mean the distribution by Distributing of all of the common stock of Controlled that is held by Distributing to Distributing's shareholders pursuant to the Separation Agreement.
Distribution
"" shall mean the date on which the Distribution shall be effected.
Distribution Date
"" shall mean the product of a Group's Separate Group Taxable Income, computed for federal income tax purposes, and the highest federal income tax rate imposed under the Code on the
Federal Separate Group Tax Liability
Taxable income of a corporation for the relevant Taxable period (or portion thereof), reduced by any Tax credits that the Group would be able to use if it were calculating its federal income Tax liability on a stand-alone basis.
"" shall mean (i) with respect to federal income taxes, (A) a "determination" as defined in Section 1313(a) of the Code, or (B) the date of acceptance by or on behalf of the IRS of Form 870-AD (or any successor form thereto), as a final resolution of Tax liability for any Taxable period, except that a Form 870-AD (or successor form thereto) that reserves the right of the taxpayer to file a claim for Refund or the right of the IRS to assert a further deficiency shall not constitute a Final Determination with respect to the item or items so reserved; (ii) with respect to Taxes other than federal income taxes, any final determination of liability in respect of a Tax that, under applicable law, is not subject to further appeal, review or modification through proceedings or otherwise; (iii) with respect to any Tax, any final disposition by reason of the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations; or (iv) with respect to any Tax, the payment of Tax by any member of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group, whichever is responsible for payment of such Tax under applicable law, with respect to any item disallowed or adjusted by a Taxing Authority, provided that the provisions of Section 13 hereof have been complied with, or, if such section is inapplicable, that the party responsible under the terms of this Agreement for such Tax is notified by the party paying such Tax that it has determined that no action should be taken to recoup such disallowed item, and the other party agrees with such determination.
Final Determination
"" shall mean the California Franchise Tax Board.
FTB
"" shall mean a Group with Separate Group Taxable Income for the relevant Taxable period.
Gain Group
"" shall mean the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group, as appropriate.
Group
"" shall mean the Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" shall mean a Group that incurs a Separate Group Taxable Loss for the relevant Taxable period.
Loss Group
"" shall mean the overpayment rate as set forth in Section 6621 of the Code.
Overpayment Rate
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 7701(a)(1) of the Code.
Person
"" shall mean any Taxable period (or portion thereof) beginning after the close of business on the Distribution Date.
Post-Distribution Period
"" shall mean any Taxable period ending on or before the close of business on the Distribution Date; provided that if a Taxable period ending after the Distribution Date contains any days which fall prior to or on the Distribution Date, only the portion of such Taxable period up to and including the Distribution Date shall be included in the Pre-Distribution Period.
Pre-Distribution Period
"" shall mean any refund of taxes, including any reduction in taxes by means of a credit, offset or otherwise.
Refund
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the third "whereas" clause in this Agreement; provided, however, that "Restructuring" shall exclude any normal business operations.
Restructuring
"" shall mean any Tax return, statement, report, form, election, claim or surrender (including estimated Tax returns and reports, extension requests and forms, and information returns and reports) required to be filed with any Taxing Authority.
Return
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the third "whereas" clause in this Agreement.
Ruling Request
"" shall mean, with respect to a Group, such Group's Taxable income computed as if such Group were a separate consolidated, combined or unitary group, and applying such Tax principles, including limitations and carryovers (excluding limits for charitable contributions and dividends received deduction, and accounting for deferred intercompany transactions consistent with the deferral and recognition rules of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-13 (or any successor rule) or analogous state or local rule), that would have been applicable to such Group had such Group never been part of the Consolidated Group or any other consolidated, combined or unitary group. In the context of state and local tax, Separate Group Taxable Income shall be computed prior to the application of any apportionment formula. Additionally, to the extent a member of a Group has a net operating loss or any other tax attribute that was created prior to becoming a member of the Group but can be carried forward and used by the Group (in the context of state or local law, either before or after apportionment, as determined under applicable law), such attribute will factor into such Group's calculation of Separate Group Taxable Income (taking into account any applicable limitations on the use thereof).
Separate Group Taxable Income
"" shall mean, with respect to a Group, such Group's Taxable loss computed as if such Group were a separate consolidated, combined or unitary group, and applying such Tax principles, including limitations and carryovers (excluding limits for charitable contributions and dividends received deduction, and accounting for deferred intercompany transactions consistent with the deferral and recognition rules of Treasury
Separate Group Taxable Loss
Regulations Section 1.1502-13 (or any successor rule) or analogous state or local rule), that would have been applicable to such Group had such Group never been part of the Consolidated Group or any other consolidated, combined or unitary group. In the context of state and local tax, Separate Group Taxable Loss shall be computed prior to the application of any apportionment formula. Additionally, to the extent a member of a Group has a net operating loss or any other Tax attribute that was created prior to becoming a member of the Group but can be carried forward and used by the Group (in the context of state or local law, either before or after apportionment, as determined under applicable law), such attribute will factor into the Group's calculation of Separate Group Taxable Loss (taking into account any applicable limitations on the use thereof).
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the second "whereas" clause in this Agreement.
Separation Agreement
"" shall mean, with respect to a particular state or locality, the product of the Group's Separate Group Taxable Income and the Combined Apportionment Factor and the State Tax Rate, reduced by any applicable Tax credits that the Group would be able to use if it were calculating its Tax liability on a stand-alone basis.
State Separate Group Tax Liability
"" shall mean, with respect to a particular state or locality, the highest applicable tax rate imposed under applicable law on the Separate Group Taxable Income of the Group for the relevant Taxable period (or portion thereof).
State Tax Rate
"" (and the correlative meaning, "," "" and "") shall mean (A) any tax imposed under Subtitle A of the Code, or any net income, gross income, gross receipts, alternative or add-on minimum, sales, use, business and occupation, value-added, trade, goods and services, ad valorem, franchise, profits, license, business royalty, withholding, payroll, employment, capital, excise, transfer, recording, severance, stamp, occupation, premium, property, asset, real estate acquisition, environmental, custom duty, or other tax, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest and any penalty, addition to tax or additional amount imposed by a Taxing Authority; (B) any liability of a member of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group, as the case may be, for the payment of any amounts of the type described in clause (A) for any Taxable period resulting from such member being a part of a consolidated group pursuant to the application of Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-6 or any similar provision applicable under state, local or foreign law; or (C) any liability of a member of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group for the payment of any amounts described in clause (A) as a result of any express or implied obligation to indemnify any other Person.
Tax
Taxes
Taxing
Taxable
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section 10(d) of this Agreement.
Tax Benefit
"" shall mean any Tax audit, dispute or proceeding (whether administrative, judicial or contractual).
Tax Proceeding
"" shall mean any governmental authority (domestic or foreign), including, without limitation, any state, municipality, political subdivision or governmental agency, responsible for the imposition of any Tax.
Taxing Authority
"" shall mean the Supplemental Tax Sharing Agreement Relating to Direct Tax and VAT in the United Kingdom, dated as of June 30, 2007, between Distributing and Controlled.
U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement
"" shall mean the underpayment rate as set forth in Section 6621 of the Code.
Underpayment Rate
Any term used in this Agreement which is not defined in this Agreement shall, to the extent the context requires, have the meaning assigned to it in the Code or the applicable Treasury regulations thereunder (as interpreted in administrative pronouncements and judicial decisions), in comparable provisions of applicable law or in the Ruling Request.
(b)
Any and all existing Tax sharing agreements or arrangements, written or unwritten, between any member of the Distributing Group and any member of the Controlled Group, other than this Agreement and the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement, shall be or shall have been terminated upon consummation of the Distribution. Upon consummation of the Distribution, neither the members of the Controlled Group nor the members of the Distributing Group shall have any further rights or liabilities thereunder, and this Agreement and the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement shall be the only Tax sharing agreements between the members of the Controlled Group and the members of the Distributing Group. Distributing and Controlled shall act in good faith in the performance of this Agreement.
2. Tax Sharing Agreements.
3. Federal Income Taxes.
(a) Return Filing.
(i) Distributing shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, Consolidated Federal Returns for which the Consolidated Group is required or permitted to file a Consolidated Federal Return using, inter alia, information previously provided by Controlled. Controlled shall provide Distributing with all necessary information to file a Consolidated Federal Return not
later than 45 days before such return is due. Each member of the Consolidated Group shall execute and file such consents, elections and other documents as may be required or appropriate for the filing of such Consolidated Federal Returns. All Tax elections shall be at the sole discretion of Distributing. All income tax computations performed on a consolidated basis will be performed or approved by Distributing. To the extent reasonably practicable, Distributing shall notify and discuss with Controlled prior to the filing of a Consolidated Federal Return any potential material differences in the information provided by Controlled to be used in the preparation of such Consolidated Federal Return and the position Distributing intends to take on such Consolidated Federal Return. Not later than 15 days after filing a Consolidated Federal Return, Distributing shall inform Controlled in writing of any position taken on such Consolidated Federal Return that is materially different from the information provided by Controlled to be used in the preparation of such Consolidated Federal Return.
(ii) Distributing shall pay, or cause to be paid, and, subject to the provisions of Section 3(b), shall be responsible for, any and all federal income taxes due or required to be paid with respect to, or required to be reported on, any such Consolidated Federal Return.
(iii) In the event a Consolidated Federal Return is not filed, each relevant member of the Distributing Group and Controlled Group shall be responsible for (i) filing its own Pre-Distribution Period Return in respect of federal income taxes as a separate entity, including requests for extension, as if this Agreement were not in effect and (ii) making Tax payments (including estimated Tax payments, if necessary). Each such member filing a Return as a separate entity shall be entitled to any Tax benefit and shall be liable for any Tax burden resulting from the filing of such separate Return.
(b) Allocated Tax Charge.
(i) Each Group included in the Consolidated Federal Return shall be responsible for calculating its Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss as if such Group filed a federal income tax Return on a stand-alone basis, and shall bear its Federal Separate Group Tax Liability, if any. For purposes of such calculation, the deduction for state and local taxes to which each Group is entitled will be determined in a manner consistent with Section 4 of this Agreement.
(ii) If the Controlled Group included in the Consolidated Federal Return incurs a Separate Group Taxable Loss, Distributing shall pay to the Controlled Group (A) the amount, if any, by which the federal income taxes payable with respect to the Consolidated Federal Return are actually reduced by reason of the Controlled Group's Separate Group Taxable Loss and (B) any Refund of federal income taxes or other federal income tax benefit attributable to such Separate Group Taxable Loss that is Actually Realized, in each case as determined by Distributing in its sole discretion (including that any tax benefits of the Distributing Group shall be fully utilized before utilizing any tax benefits of the Controlled Group). To the extent the Controlled Group receives a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Separate Company Taxable Loss pursuant to this Section 3(b)(ii), such loss shall not be carried forward or carried back by the Controlled Group for purposes of determining Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss in any other Taxable period (or portion thereof). To the extent the Controlled Group does not receive a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Separate Group Taxable Loss pursuant to this Section 3(b)(ii), such loss may be carried forward or carried back, subject to any applicable limitation with respect to carry forward or carry back losses, by the Controlled Group for purposes of determining Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss in another Taxable period (or portion thereof).
(iii) If the Controlled Group included in the Consolidated Federal Return has a foreign Tax credit or other Tax credit that it is unable to use in its calculation of Federal Separate Group Tax Liability (other than an AMT credit), Distributing shall pay to the Controlled Group (A) the amount, if any, by which the federal income taxes payable with respect to the Consolidated Federal Return is actually reduced by reason of the Controlled Group's Tax credit and (B) any Refund of federal income taxes or other federal income tax benefit attributable to such Tax credit that is Actually Realized, in each case as determined by Distributing in its sole discretion (including that any tax benefits of the Distributing Group shall be fully utilized before utilizing any tax benefits of the Controlled Group). To the extent the Controlled Group receives a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Tax credit pursuant to this Section 3(b)(iii), the Controlled Group's Federal Separate Group Tax Liability will be adjusted to reflect the fact that the Controlled Group has previously received the benefit of such credit. To the extent the
Controlled Group does not receive a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Tax credit pursuant to this Section 3(b)(iii), such Tax credit may be carried forward or carried back , subject to any applicable limitation with respect to carry forward or carry back of Tax credits, by the Controlled Group for purposes of calculating its Separate Group Tax Liability in another Taxable period (or portion thereof).
(iv) In the event a Consolidated Group incurs an AMT liability with respect to any Taxable period (or portion thereof), Distributing shall be solely responsible for such liability. Any Tax benefit arising from the utilization of a consolidated federal AMT credit shall be for the sole benefit of Distributing.
4. State and Local Income Taxes.
(a) Return Filing.
(i) Distributing shall prepare and file, or cause to be prepared and filed, Consolidated State Returns for which a Consolidated Group is required or permitted to file a Consolidated State Return using, inter alia, information previously provided by Controlled. Controlled shall provide Distributing with all necessary information to file a Consolidated State Return not later than 21 days before such return is due. Each member of the Consolidated Group shall execute and file such consents, elections and other documents as may be required or appropriate for the filing of such Consolidated State Returns. All Tax elections shall be made at the discretion of Distributing. All Tax computations performed on a combined, consolidated or unitary basis will be performed or approved by Distributing. To the extent reasonably practicable, Distributing shall notify and discuss with Controlled prior to the filing of a Consolidated State Return any potential material differences in the information provided by Controlled to be used in the preparation of such Consolidated State Return and the position Distributing intends to take on such Consolidated Federal Return. Not later than 15 days after filing a Consolidated State Return, Distributing shall inform Controlled in writing of any position taken on such Consolidated State Return that is materially different from the information provided by Controlled to be used in the preparation of such Consolidated State Return.
(ii) Distributing shall pay, or cause to be paid, and, subject to the provisions of Section 4(b), shall be responsible for, any and all income taxes due or required to be paid with respect to, or required to be reported on, any such Consolidated State Return.
(iii) In the event a Consolidated State Return is not filed, each relevant member of the Distributing Group and Controlled Group shall be responsible for (A) filing its own Return as a separate entity, or its own Return in respect of state and local income Taxes relating to a group consisting solely of members of the Distributing Group or members of the Controlled Group, as the case may be, on behalf of the separate group, in each case including requests for extension, as if this Agreement were not in effect and (B) making Tax payments (including estimated Tax payments, if necessary). Each such member filing a Return as a separate entity shall be entitled to any Tax benefit and shall be liable for any Tax burden resulting from the filing of such separate Return.
(b) Allocated Tax Charge.
(i) Each Group included in a Consolidated State Return shall be responsible for calculating its Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss and shall bear its State Separate Group Tax Liability, if any.
(ii) If the Controlled Group included in a Consolidated State Return incurs a Separate Group Taxable Loss, Distributing shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, to the Controlled Group (A) the amount, if any, by which the state or local income taxes reflected on such Return are actually reduced by reason of the Controlled Group's Separate Group Taxable Loss and (B) any Refund of state or local income taxes or other state or local income tax benefit attributable to such Separate Group Taxable Loss that is Actually Realized, in each case as determined by Distributing in its sole discretion (including that any tax benefits of the Distributing Group shall be fully utilized before utilizing any tax benefits of the Controlled Group). To the extent the Controlled Group receives a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Separate Group Taxable Loss pursuant to this Section 4(b)(ii), such loss shall not be carried forward or carried back by the Controlled Group for purposes of determining Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss in any other Taxable period (or portion thereof). To the extent the Controlled Group does not receive a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Separate Group Taxable Loss pursuant to this Section 4(b)(ii), such loss may be carried forward or
carried back, subject to any applicable limitation with respect to carry forward or carry back losses, by the Controlled Group for purposes of determining Separate Group Taxable Income or Separate Group Taxable Loss in another Taxable period (or portion thereof).
(iii) If the Controlled Group included in a Consolidated State Return has a Tax credit that it is unable to use in its calculation of State Separate Group Tax Liability, Distributing shall pay to the Controlled Group (A) the amount, if any, by which the state or local income taxes reflected on such Return is actually reduced by reason of the Consolidated Group's Tax credit and (B) any Refund of state or local income taxes or other state or local income tax benefit attributable to such Tax credit that is Actually Realized, in each case as determined by Distributing in its sole discretion (including that any tax benefits of the Distributing Group shall be fully utilized before utilizing any tax benefits of the Controlled Group). To the extent the Controlled Group receives a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Tax credit pursuant to this Section 4(b)(i)(C), the Controlled Group's State Separate Group Tax Liability will be adjusted to reflect the fact that the Controlled Group has previously received the benefit of such credit. To the extent the Controlled Group does not receive a payment or credit from Distributing in respect of a Tax credit pursuant to this Section 4(b)(iii), such Tax credit may be carried forward or carried back, subject to any applicable limitation with respect to carry forward or carry back of Tax credits, by the Controlled Group for purposes of calculating its State Separate Group Tax Liability in another Taxable period (or portion thereof).
With respect to the calculation of each Group's Tax liability for foreign taxes, other than U.K. taxes governed by the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement, the principles set forth in Section 4 shall apply .
5. Foreign Income Tax.
mutatis mutandis
6. Estimated Tax Payments.
If estimated Tax payments are required with respect to a Consolidated Group for a Pre-Distribution Period, Distributing shall pay, or cause to be paid, to the IRS, and/or to each relevant state and local Taxing Authority, on behalf of the members of such Consolidated Group, those estimated Tax payments that are due on the relevant dates prescribed by applicable law. On February 15 (or the proper due date under applicable law) of the year following the current tax year, Distributing
(a)
shall pay to the IRS, and to each relevant state and local Taxing Authority, on behalf of the members of any Consolidated Group, the payment, if any, required to be made with a request for an extension of time in which to file a Consolidated Federal Return or a Consolidated State Return, as the case may be. Each Group's share of such estimated Tax payments, and payments required to be made with a request for an extension of time in which to file a Consolidated Federal Return or a Consolidated State Return, shall be determined in a manner consistent with the methods set forth in Sections 3 and 4 of this Agreement. Reimbursement to Distributing of the Controlled Group's share of any quarterly estimated tax payments or any payment made with a request for an extension of time in which to file a Consolidated Federal Return or a Consolidated State Return, shall be made within twenty business days after receiving notice of such liability from Distributing.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 6(a), if Distributing requests in writing an advance reimbursement from the Controlled Group of the Controlled Group's share of a quarterly estimated Tax payment or any payment required to be made with a request for an extension of time in which to file a Consolidated Federal Return or a Consolidated State Return, which request shall be not more than ten business days and not less than 5 business days prior to the due date of such payment, the Controlled Group shall reimburse Distributing not later than the due date of such estimated Tax payment.
(b)
If the Controlled Group is a Loss Group and if such net operating loss would decrease overall consolidated, combined or unitary Taxable income in respect of the Consolidated Group, Distributing shall pay to the Controlled Group an amount equal to the difference between the Tax liability of the Distributing Group and the amounts paid to the respective Taxing Authorities 5 business days after all such payments are due to the Taxing Authorities.
(c)
7. Settlement Procedures; Certain Other Payments.
Distributing shall calculate settlement of the final federal, state, local and foreign Tax liability for all Pre-Distribution Periods, and notify the Controlled Group of such settlement. Subject to Section 21 of this Agreement (relating to dispute resolution procedures), the Controlled Group shall pay to Distributing its share of such Tax liability, as determined under Sections 3, 4 and 5 of this Agreement, within twenty business days after receiving notice of such Tax liability from Distributing. Any amounts paid by any member of the Controlled Group pursuant to Section 6 and any amounts receivable by the Controlled Group in respect of a Separate Group Taxable Loss or Tax credit shall be included in
(a)
determining the payments due from the Controlled Group. If the sum of any payments by the Controlled Group pursuant to Section 6, and any amounts receivable by the Controlled Group in respect of a Separate Group Taxable Loss or Tax credit exceed its Tax liability, such excess shall be refunded to the Controlled Group. Interest will be due on any underpayment or overpayment of Tax, computed from the date on which a final Return is filed, (i) if owed by the Controlled Group to Distributing on an underpayment, at the Underpayment Rate and (ii) if owed by Distributing to the Controlled Group on an overpayment, the Overpayment Rate.
If a portion or all of an unused loss or Tax credit is allocated to a member of the Consolidated Group, pursuant to Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-21(b) or Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-79, and is carried back or forward to a Taxable year in which such member filed a separate Return or consolidated, combined or unitary Return with an affiliated group that is not a Consolidated Group, any Refund or reduction in Tax liability arising from such carry back or carryover shall be retained by such member, subject to future audit adjustments. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Distributing, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether an election shall be made to relinquish the entire carry back period with respect to part or all of a consolidated net operating loss for any Pre-Distribution Period in accordance with Treasury Regulations Section 1.1502-21(b)(3).
(b)
Notwithstanding Section 7(b) above, no member of the Controlled Group shall make any election to carry back any Tax item from a Post-Distribution Period to a Pre-Distribution Period without Distributing's consent. In the event that Distributing consents to the carry back of any Tax item by a member of the Controlled Group from a Post-Distribution Period to a Pre-Distribution Period or in the event that a member of the Controlled Group is required by applicable law to carry back a Tax item from a Post-Distribution Period to a Pre-Distribution Period, Distributing shall currently compensate the Controlled Group only for a Tax item that is carried back which does not result in the loss or deferral of any Tax attribute of any member of the Distributing Group. In the event that such item of a member of the Distributing Group is only deferred, Distributing shall make a payment to the Controlled Group in respect of such deferred item at the time the Distributing Group Actually Realizes the deferred Tax attribute. To the extent the Distributing Group suffers a permanent loss of such Tax attribute, no payment shall be made to the Controlled Group.
(c)
Controlled and Distributing hereby acknowledge and agree that Sections 6 and 7(a) are applicable only with respect to Pre-Distribution Periods for which no final Return has been filed prior to the date hereof.
(d)
In accordance with the past practice of Controlled and Distributing, Controlled shall continue to make payments to Distributing in respect of the exercise of options on Distributing stock and the conversion of restricted Distributing stock units (i) prior to the Distribution, by employees of Controlled and the members of the Controlled Group, and (ii) after the Distribution, by former employees of Controlled and the members of the Controlled Group.
(e)
All federal, state, local, foreign and other Taxes that are not otherwise expressly dealt with herein or in the U.K. Tax Sharing Agreement, and the filing of any Returns with respect to such Taxes, shall be the responsibility of the Person who is liable for such Taxes or is responsible for filing such Returns under applicable law.
8. Other Taxes.
9. Certain Representations and Covenants.
Controlled and each member of the Controlled Group represents that as of the date hereof, and covenants that on the Distribution Date, there is no plan or intention:
(a) Controlled Representations.
(i) to liquidate Controlled or to merge or consolidate Controlled, or any member of the Controlled Group conducting an Active Business, with any other person subsequent to the Distribution,
(ii) to sell or otherwise dispose of any asset of Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group subsequent to the Distribution, in a manner that would result in any increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax asset of the Distributing Group or any member thereof,
(iii) to take any action inconsistent with the written information and representations furnished to the IRS or the FTB in connection with the Ruling Request, or to counsel in connection with any opinion being delivered by counsel with respect to the Distribution or the Restructuring, regardless of whether such information and representations were included in the ruling issued by the IRS or FTB or in the opinion of counsel,
(iv) to repurchase stock of Controlled in a manner contrary to the requirements of IRS Revenue Procedure 96-30, as modified by IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-48, or in a manner contrary to the representations made in the Ruling Request,
(v) to take any action that management of Controlled knows, or should have known, is reasonably likely to contravene any agreement with a Taxing Authority entered into prior to the Distribution Date to which any member of the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group is a party, or
(vi) to enter into any negotiations, agreements, or arrangements with respect to transactions or events (including stock issuances, pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise, option grants, the adoption of, or authorization of shares under, a stock option plan, capital contributions, or acquisitions, but not including the Distribution) which may cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan pursuant to which one or more Persons acquire directly or indirectly Controlled stock representing a "50-percent or greater interest" within the meaning of Section 355(d)(4) of the Code.
Controlled covenants to Distributing that, without either (i) the prior written consent of Distributing, (ii) a supplemental private letter ruling issued by the IRS, or (iii) an unqualified written opinion of tax counsel selected by Distributing (in the case of (ii) and (iii), satisfactory to Distributing in its sole discretion):
(b) Controlled Covenants.
(i) during the twelve-month period following the Distribution Date, neither Controlled, nor any member of the Controlled Group conducting an Active Business, will liquidate, merge or consolidate with any other Person,
(ii) during the two-year period following the Distribution Date, Controlled will not sell, exchange, distribute or otherwise dispose of its assets or those of any member of the Controlled Group in a manner that would result in any increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax asset of the Distributing Group or any member thereof,
(iii) following the Distribution, Controlled will, for a minimum of twelve months, continue each Active Business,
(iv) Controlled will not, nor will it permit any member of the Controlled Group to, take any action inconsistent with the information and representations furnished to the IRS or the FTB in connection with the Ruling Request, or to counsel in connection with any opinion being delivered by counsel with respect to the Distribution or the Restructuring, regardless of whether such information and representations were included in the ruling issued by the IRS or FTB or in the opinion of counsel,
(v) Controlled will not take any action that management of Controlled knows, or should have known, is reasonably likely to contravene any agreement with a Taxing Authority entered into prior to the Distribution Date to which any member of the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group is a party,
(vi) during the two-year period following the Distribution Date, Controlled will not repurchase stock of Controlled in a manner contrary to the requirements of IRS Revenue Procedure 96-30, as modified by IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-48, or in a manner contrary to the representations made in the Ruling Request,
(vii) other than to the extent such action is required by the Separation Agreement, on or after the Distribution Date, Controlled will not, nor will it permit any member of the Controlled Group to, make or change any accounting method, amend any Return or take any Tax position on any Return, take any other action or enter into any transaction that results in any increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax asset of the Distributing Group or any member thereof in respect of any Pre-Distribution Period, and
(viii) during the two-year period following the Distribution Date, Controlled will not enter into any transaction or make any change in its equity structure (including stock issuances, pursuant to the exercise of options or otherwise, options grants, the adoption of, or authorization of shares under, a stock option plan, capital contributions, or acquisitions, but not including, the Distribution) which may cause the Distribution to be treated as part of a plan (or series of related transactions) pursuant to which one or more Persons acquire directly or indirectly Controlled stock representing a "50-percent or greater interest" within the meaning of Section 355(d)(4) of the Code.
Controlled agrees that, regardless of whether Distributing consents to, or receives a ruling or opinion with respect to, any action referred to in this Section 9(b), Distributing is to have no liability for any Tax resulting from any such action and Controlled agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Distributing Group against any such Tax. Controlled shall also bear all costs incurred by Distributing in connection with obtaining any opinion of
counsel, a supplemental private letter ruling or in connection with Distributing's determination of whether or not to grant any written consent required under this Section 9(b).
10. Indemnities.
Controlled and each member of the Controlled Group will jointly and severally indemnify Distributing and the members of the Distributing Group against, and hold them harmless from:
(a) Controlled Indemnity.
(i) any income tax liability of the Controlled Group as determined in accordance with this Agreement;
(ii) any liability or damage resulting from a breach by Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group of any representation or covenant made by Controlled herein;
(iii) any income tax liability (a) resulting from the Distribution or any portion of the Restructuring that is intended to qualify as tax free to Distributing or its shareholders under Sections 355 and/or 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code (or similar provisions of state law) from failing to so qualify and (b) that is attributable to any action of Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group, other than any action required by the Separation Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement (including any exhibits or schedules thereto), without regard to whether Distributing has consented to such action;
(iv) any Taxes imposed on Distributing or any member of the Distributing Group in respect of the Special Dividend to the extent Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group has received a Refund with respect to such Taxes; and
(v) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorneys' fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any income tax liability or damage described in (i), (ii), (iii) or (iv), including those incurred in the contest in good faith in appropriate proceedings relating to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any such income tax, liability or damage.
Distributing and each member of the Distributing Group will jointly and severally indemnify Controlled and the members of the Controlled Group against, and hold them harmless from:
(b) Distributing Indemnity.
(i) any income tax liability of the Consolidated Group, other than any such liabilities described in Section 10(a);
(ii) any Taxes imposed on Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group under Treasury Regulation 1.1502-6 (or similar provision of state, local or foreign law) solely as a result of Controlled or any such member being or having been a member of a Consolidated Group to the extent payment is first sought by a Taxing Authority from a member of the Controlled Group;
(iii) any liability or damage resulting from a breach by Distributing or any member of the Distributing Group of any representation or covenant made by Distributing herein; and
(iv) all liabilities, costs, expenses (including, without limitation, reasonable expenses of investigation and attorneys' fees and expenses), losses, damages, assessments, settlements or judgments arising out of or incident to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any income tax liability or damage described in (i), (ii) or (iii) including those incurred in the contest in good faith in appropriate proceedings relating to the imposition, assessment or assertion of any such income tax, liability or damage.
If a member of the Distributing Group ceases to be an Affiliate of Distributing as a result of a sale of its stock to a third party (whether or not treated as a sale or exchange of stock for Tax purposes), such member of the Distributing Group shall be released from its obligations under this Agreement upon such sale and neither Distributing nor any member of the Distributing Group shall have any obligation to indemnify Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group under Section 10(b)(iii) for any liability or damage attributable to actions taken by such Affiliate after such sale.
Controlled, Distributing and the members of the Controlled Group and Distributing Group, respectively, shall discharge their obligations under Sections 10(a) and 10(b) hereof, respectively, by paying the relevant amount within 30 days of demand therefor. Any such demand shall include a statement showing the amount due under Section 10(a) or 10(b), as the case may be. Items described in Section 10(a)(i) and 10(b)(i) shall be calculated as set forth in Sections 3 and 4. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if either Controlled, Distributing or any member of the Controlled Group or Distributing Group disputes in
(c) Discharge of Indemnity.
good faith the fact or the amount of its obligation under Section 10(a) or Section 10(b), then no payment of the amount in dispute shall be required until any such good faith dispute is resolved in accordance with Section 21 hereof; provided, however, that any amount not paid within 30 days of demand therefor shall bear interest as provided in Section 14.
If an indemnification obligation of any member of the Distributing Group or any member of the Controlled Group, as the case may be, under this Section 10 with respect to a Consolidated Group arises in respect of an adjustment that makes allowable to a member of the Controlled Group or a member of the Distributing Group, respectively, any deduction, amortization, exclusion from income or other allowance (a "") which would not, but for such adjustment, be allowable, then any payment by any member of the Distributing Group or any member of the Controlled Group, respectively, pursuant to this Section 10 shall be an amount equal to (x) the amount otherwise due but for this subsection (d), minus (y) the present value of the product of the Tax Benefit multiplied (i) by the maximum applicable federal, foreign, state or local, as the case may be, corporate Tax rate in effect at the time such Tax Benefit becomes allowable to a member of the Controlled Group or a member of the Distributing Group (as the case may be) or (ii) in the case of a credit, by 100 percent. The present value of such product shall be determined by discounting such product from the time the Tax Benefit becomes allowable at a rate equal to the Prime Rate as published in the , .
(d) Tax Benefits.
Tax Benefit
Wall Street Journal
Eastern Edition
Distributing or Controlled, as the case may be, shall guarantee or otherwise perform the obligations of each member of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group, respectively, under this Agreement.
11. Guarantees.
12. Communication and Cooperation.
Controlled and Distributing shall consult and cooperate (and shall cause each member of the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group, respectively, to cooperate) fully at such time and to the extent reasonably requested by the other party in connection with all matters subject to this Agreement. Such cooperation shall include, without limitation,
(a) Consult and Cooperate.
(i) the retention, and provision on reasonable request, of any and all information including all books, records, documentation or other information pertaining to Tax matters relating to the Distributing Group and the Controlled Group, any necessary explanations of information, and access to personnel, until one year after the expiration of the applicable statute of limitation (giving effect to any extension, waiver, or mitigation thereof);
(ii) the execution of any document that may be necessary (including to give effect to Section 13) or helpful in connection with any required Return or in connection with any audit, proceeding, suit or action; and
(iii) the use of the parties' best efforts to obtain any documentation from a governmental authority or a third party that may be necessary or helpful in connection with the foregoing.
Distributing and Controlled shall keep each other fully informed with respect to any material development relating to the matters subject to this Agreement.
(b) Provide Information.
Distributing and Controlled shall promptly advise each other with respect to any proposed Tax adjustments relating to a Consolidated Group, which are the subject of an audit or investigation, or are the subject of any proceeding or litigation, and which may affect any Tax liability or any Tax attribute of Distributing, Controlled, the Distributing Group, the Controlled Group or any member of the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group (including, but not limited to, basis in an asset or the amount of earnings and profits).
(c) Tax Attribute Matters.
In the event that any Taxes are imposed or threatened to be imposed on Distributing or any member of the Distributing Group in respect of the Special Dividend, Controlled shall, at the written request of Distributing, use its reasonable best efforts to obtain a Refund of any Taxes paid by Controlled or a member of the Controlled Group with respect to amounts received by Controlled or a member of the Controlled Group that give rise to a payment of the Special Dividend.
(d)
13. Audits and Contest.
Distributing or Controlled shall promptly notify the other in writing upon the receipt of any notice of Tax Proceeding from the relevant Taxing Authority that could reasonably result in an indemnity obligation of a party under this Agreement; provided, that a party's right to indemnification under this Agreement shall not be limited in any way by a failure to so notify, except to the extent that the indemnifying party is materially prejudiced by such failure.
(a)
Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, Distributing shall have full control over all matters relating to any Return or any Tax Proceeding relating to any Tax matters of at least one member
(b)
of the Distributing Group. Except as provided in Section 13(c), Distributing shall have absolute discretion with respect to any decisions to be made, or the nature of any action to be taken, with respect to any matter described in the preceding sentence. Distributing shall act in good faith in the performance of this Section 13(b). Controlled may, at its own expense, participate in any such Tax Proceeding.
(c)
(i) Upon request, during the course of any Tax Proceeding relating to a Tax liability or damage described in Section 10(a), Controlled shall from time to time furnish Distributing with evidence reasonably satisfactory to Distributing of Controlled's ability to pay the amount for which it could reasonably be expected to be responsible pursuant to Section 10(a). If at any time during such Tax Proceeding Distributing determines that Controlled could not pay such amount, then Controlled shall be required to furnish a guarantee or performance bond satisfactory to Distributing in an amount equal to the amount for which Controlled could reasonably be expected to be responsible pursuant to Section 10(a).
(ii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event a Tax Proceeding involves an issue that is common to both the Distributing Group and the Controlled Group, Distributing shall use its best efforts to settle such issues on behalf of the Distributing Group and the Controlled Group on a consistent basis.
(iii) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, with respect to any Tax Proceeding involving issues relating solely to a Tax liability of one or more members of the Controlled Group (taking into account the parties' obligations under Section 10), Controlled shall have control over such Tax Proceeding.
The indemnified party agrees to give notice to the indemnitor of the assertion of any claim, or the commencement of any suit, action or proceeding in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder within 30 days of such assertion or commencement, or such earlier time that would allow the indemnitor to timely respond to such claim, suit action or proceeding.
(d)
With respect to Returns relating to Taxes solely attributable to one or more members of the Controlled Group (taking into account the
(e)
parties' obligations under Section 10), Controlled and the members of the Controlled Group shall have full control over all matters relating to any Tax Proceeding in connection therewith. Controlled and the members of the Controlled Group shall have absolute discretion with respect to any decisions to be made, or the nature of any action to be taken, with respect to any matter described in the preceding sentence.
Controlled and Distributing shall jointly control the conduct of the Company Proceedings. Controlled shall not agree to any settlement in respect of the Company Proceedings without the consent of Distributing, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(f)
14. Payments.
All payments to be made hereunder shall be made in immediately available funds. Except as otherwise provided, all payments required to be made pursuant to this Agreement will be due 30 days after the receipt of notice of such payment or, where no notice is required, 30 days after the fixing of liability or the resolution of a dispute. Payments shall be deemed made when received. Any payment that is not made by the Distributing Group when due shall bear interest at Overpayment Rate for each day until paid. Any payment that is not made by the Controlled Group when due shall bear interest at the Underpayment Rate for each day until paid. If, pursuant to a Final Determination, any amount paid by Distributing or the members of the Distributing Group or Controlled or the members of the Controlled Group, as the case may be, pursuant to this Agreement results in any increased Tax liability or reduction of any Tax asset of Controlled or any member of the Controlled Group or Distributing or any member of the Distributing Group, respectively, then Distributing or Controlled, as appropriate, shall indemnify the other party and hold it harmless from any interest or penalty attributable to such increased Tax liability or the reduction of such Tax asset and shall pay to the other party, in addition to amounts otherwise owed, the After-Tax Amount. With respect to any payment required to be made or received under this Agreement, Distributing has the right to designate, by written notice to Controlled, which member of the Distributing Group will make or receive such payment.
(a) Mechanics.
The parties agree that payments made pursuant to this Agreement shall be treated for all Tax purposes as adjustments to the amount contributed by Distributing to Controlled in connection with the Restructuring immediately prior to the Distribution, or, if appropriate, as distributions from Controlled to MSDCI and, except as otherwise required by law, none of the parties shall take any position inconsistent with such treatment.
(b) Tax Treatment.
Any notice, demand, claim, or other communication under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been given upon the delivery or mailing, thereof, as the case may be, if delivered personally or sent by certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other address as a party may specify by notice to the other):
15. Notices.
If to Distributing or the Distributing Group, to:
Morgan Stanley
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
Attn: Harvey B. Mogenson, Global Head of Tax
Facsimile: (212) 507-3643
With a copy to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Attn: Paul Kingsley, Esq./Jeffrey Small, Esq.
Facsimile: (212) 450-3277/(212) 450-3500
If to Controlled or the Controlled Group, to:
Discover Financial Services
2500 Lake Cook Road
Riverwoods, IL 60015
Attn: General Counsel - Contracts
Facsimile: (224) 405-4584
16. Costs and Expenses.
Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, each party shall bear its own costs and expenses incurred pursuant to this Agreement. For purposes of this Agreement, costs and expenses shall include, but not be limited to, reasonable attorneys' fees, accountant fees and other related professional fees and disbursements. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, each of the Controlled Group and the Distributing Group will be responsible for its allocable portion, as determined by Distributing, of (i) all costs and expenses attributable to filing any Return that reflects the income, assets or operations of the Controlled Group or the Distributing Group, respectively, and any Return
(a)
required to be filed in connection with the Restructuring, and (ii) all costs and expenses incurred by Distributing or Controlled, respectively, in complying with the provisions of Section 12 of this Agreement.
With respect to all Tax Proceedings, including any pending litigation with any Taxing Authority, costs shall be allocated in good faith by Distributing. Each party hereto shall be liable for its allocable portion of such costs as provided in Section 10.
(b)
This Agreement shall become effective upon the consummation of the Distribution. All rights and obligations arising hereunder shall survive until they are fully effectuated or performed and, provided, further, that notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall remain in effect and its provisions shall survive for one year after the full period of all applicable statutes of limitation (giving effect to any extension, waiver or mitigation thereof) and, with respect to any claim hereunder initiated prior to the end of such period, until such claim has been satisfied or otherwise resolved.
17. Effectiveness; Termination and Survival.
The headings contained in this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not constitute a part hereof or in any way affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
18. Section Headings.
19. Entire Agreement; Amendments and Waivers.
This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter contained herein. No alteration, amendment, modification, or waiver of any of the terms of this Agreement shall be valid unless made by an instrument signed by an authorized officer of each of Distributing and Controlled, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
(a) Entire Agreement.
No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver hereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any right, power or privilege. This Agreement shall not be waived, amended or otherwise modified except in writing, duly executed by all of the parties hereto.
(b) Amendments and Waivers.
This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving, effect to laws and principles relating to conflicts of law.
20. Governing Law and Interpretation.
In the event of any dispute relating to this Agreement, including but not limited to whether a transaction is part of the
21. Dispute Resolution.
Restructuring and whether a Tax liability is a liability of the Distributing Group or the Controlled Group, the parties shall work together in good faith to resolve such dispute within 30 days. If the parties are unable to resolve such dispute within 30 days, such dispute shall be resolved by an accounting firm whose selection shall be reasonably satisfactory to both parties and whose fees and costs shall be shared equally by Distributing and Controlled.
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
22. Counterparts.
Except as provided below, this Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure only to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, by merger, acquisition of assets or otherwise (including but not limited to any successor of a party hereto succeeding to the Tax attributes of such party under applicable law). This Agreement is not intended to benefit any person other than the parties hereto and such successors and assigns, and no such other person shall be a third party beneficiary hereof. If, during the period beginning on the Distribution Date and ending upon the expiration of the survival period set forth in Section 17, any Person becomes an Affiliate of Controlled, such Affiliate shall be bound by the terms of this Agreement and Controlled shall provide evidence to Distributing of such Affiliate's agreement to be bound by the terms of this Agreement.
23. Assignments; Third Party Beneficiaries.
Each of the parties hereto hereby represents and warrants that it has the power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, that this Agreement has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate action on the part of such party, that this Agreement constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of each such party, and that the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by such party does not contravene or conflict with any provision or law or of its charter or bylaws or any agreement, instrument or order binding on such party.
24. Authorization, etc.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed and delivered this Agreement as of the day and year first written above.
 

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
THIS U.S. EMPLOYEE MATTERS AGREEMENT dated as of June 30, 2007 between Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (""), and Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation ("") (collectively, the "").
Morgan Stanley
Discover
Parties
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley and Discover have entered into a Separation and Distribution Agreement of even date herewith (the "") pursuant to which Morgan Stanley will distribute on a pro rata basis to the holders of Morgan Stanley's Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share (""), without any consideration being paid by such holders, all of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share of Discover ("") then owned by Morgan Stanley (the "").
Distribution Agreement
Morgan Stanley Common Stock
Discover Common Stock
Distribution
WHEREAS, in connection with the Distribution, Morgan Stanley and Discover desire to enter into this U.S. Employee Matters Agreement as a complement to the Distribution Agreement.
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants contained herein and in the Distribution Agreement, the Parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.01Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (i) this Agreement shall not apply with respect to any Employee whose primary employer within the Morgan Stanley Group or Discover Group is or was an entity domiciled in the United Kingdom, except that this Agreement shall apply with respect to the employees listed on Schedule 1.01(i) solely to the extent relevant with respect to the appropriate treatment of the benefits of such employees addressed herein and not addressed in the U.K. Employee Matters Agreement and (ii) the terms of this Agreement shall apply only to the extent relevant with respect to the appropriate treatment of any Employee whose primary employer within the Morgan Stanley Group or Discover Group is or was an entity domiciled in a country other than the United Kingdom or the U.S. or in Puerto Rico. For the avoidance of doubt, any relevant portions of this Agreement shall apply with respect to the Employees listed on Schedule 1.01(ii) hereof (who are Employees who are or have been located outside the U.S., but are or have been covered under U.S. compensation and benefit plans and arrangements). However,
. Scope.
 
this Agreement shall not apply with respect to the Employees listed on Schedule 1.01(iii) hereof (who are Employees who are, as of the date hereof, located within the U.S. but are employed by U.K. entities and covered under U.K. compensation arrangements and benefit plans and arrangements).
Section 1.02Unless otherwise defined herein, each capitalized term shall have the meaning specified for such term in the Distribution Agreement. As used in this Agreement:
. Definitions.
"" means this U.S. Employee Matters Agreement together with those parts of the Distribution Agreement referenced herein, all Schedules hereto and all amendments, modifications and changes hereto and thereto.
Agreement
"" means any day, other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banks in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law to close.
Business Day
"" means the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as codified at Part 6 of Subtitle B of Title I of ERISA and at Section 4980B of the Code, as amended.
COBRA
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
"" means the closing price of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately prior to the Distribution divided by the opening price of Discover common stock immediately following the Distribution, in each case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
Conversion Ratio
"" means any individual who is, immediately prior to the Distribution, employed by Morgan Stanley, Discover or any of their respective Subsidiaries and has employment duties primarily related to the Discover Business, as reasonably agreed by the Parties consistent with the foregoing description. A Discover Business Employee may not be a Morgan Stanley Business Employee.
Discover Business Employee
"" shall mean one or more plans adopted by Discover and approved by Morgan Stanley, as shareholder of Discover, under the authority of which the Discover equity awards described in Article 3 shall be issued.
Discover Equity Plans
"" shall mean the opening price of Discover common stock immediately following the Distribution as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
Discover Initial Price
"" means any Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangement sponsored or maintained by Discover.
Discover Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangement
 
"" means any Pension Plan or Welfare Plan sponsored or maintained by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary.
Discover Pension and Welfare Benefit Plan
"" shall mean a right, issued in accordance with Section 3.02, representing the contractual entitlement to receive one share of Discover Common Stock in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award and the Discover Equity Plans under which the Discover RSU is granted.
Discover RSU
"" shall mean a right, issued in accordance with Section 3.01, representing the contractual entitlement to purchase one share of Discover Common Stock in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award and the Discover Equity Plans under which the Discover Stock Option is granted.
Discover Stock Option
"" means any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are expected to be directly or indirectly owned by Discover immediately after the Distribution.
Discover Subsidiary
"" means any Morgan Stanley Business Employee or Former Morgan Stanley Employee or Discover Business Employee or Former Discover Employee.
Employee
"" means the U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
ERISA
"" means the U.S. Family Medical Leave Act, as amended.
FMLA
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(c).
Former Discover Employees
""has the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(b).
Former Morgan Stanley Employees
"" means the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, as amended.
HIPAA
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
"" means any individual who is, immediately prior to the Distribution, employed by Morgan Stanley or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and is not a Discover Business Employee.
Morgan Stanley Business Employee
"" shall mean the Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley CMDS Committee
 
"" shall mean any plan or arrangement under the authority of which Morgan Stanley has granted compensatory stock options, restricted stock units or any other compensatory awards based on Morgan Stanley Common Stock, which awards are outstanding on the Distribution Date.
Morgan Stanley Equity Plans
"" means the Morgan Stanley Employee Stock Purchase Plan.
Morgan Stanley ESPP
"" shall mean the closing price of Morgan Stanley common stock immediately prior to the Distribution as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.
Morgan Stanley Final Price
"" means any Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangement sponsored or maintained by Morgan Stanley.
Morgan Stanley Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangement
"" means any Pension Plan or Welfare Plan sponsored or maintained by Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary.
Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit Plan
"" shall mean a right representing a contractual entitlement to one share of Morgan Stanley Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the relevant award and the Morgan Stanley Equity Plans under which the Morgan Stanley RSU is granted.
Morgan Stanley RSU
"" means any entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are expected to be directly or indirectly owned by Morgan Stanley immediately after the Distribution.
Morgan Stanley Subsidiary
"" shall mean a right representing the contractual entitlement to purchase one share of Morgan Stanley Common Stock in accordance with the terms of the relevant award and the Morgan Stanley Equity Plans.
Morgan Stanley Stock Option
"" means the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan (f/k/a the Morgan Stanley DSP/START Plan).
MS 401(k) Plan
"" means the Morgan Stanley Employee Stock Ownership Plan.
MS ESOP
"" means the Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated Excess Benefit Plan.
MS Excess Plan
"" means the Morgan Stanley Employees Retirement Plan.
MS Pension Plan
 
"" means that portion of the Morgan Stanley Health and Welfare Benefits Plan that provides post-employment medical benefits beyond those required to be provided pursuant to COBRA.
MS Retiree Medical Plan
"" means the Morgan Stanley Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
MS SERP
"" means any contract, agreement, policy, practice, program, plan, trust or arrangement, other than a Pension Plan or Welfare Plan, providing for benefits, perquisites or compensation of any nature to any Employee, or to any family member, dependent or beneficiary of any such Employee, including, without limitation, disability, severance, health, dental, life, accidental death and dismemberment, travel and accident, tuition reimbursement, supplemental unemployment, vacation, sick, personal or bereavement days, holidays, retirement, deferred compensation, profit sharing, bonus, stock-based compensation or other forms of incentive compensation.
Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangement
"" means any pension plan as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, without regard to Section 4(b)(4) or 4(b)(5) of ERISA.
Pension Plan
"" means any employee welfare plan as defined in Section 3(1) of ERISA, without regard to Section 4(b)(4) of ERISA.
Welfare Plan
"" means the U.S. Workers Adjustment Retraining and Notification Act, as amended.
WARN
Section 1.03In this Agreement, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise:
. Interpretation.
(a) words used in the singular include the plural and words used in the plural include the singular;
(b) references to any Person include such Person's successors and assigns but, if applicable, only if such successors and assigns are permitted by this Agreement, and a reference to such Person's "Affiliates" shall be deemed to mean such Person's Affiliates following the Distribution;
(c) references to any gender include the other gender;
(d) the words "include," "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation";
(e) references to any Article, Section or Schedules mean such Article or Section of, or such Schedule to, this Agreement, as the case may be, and references in any Section or definition to any clause mean such clause of such Section or definition;
 
(f) the words "herein," "hereunder," "hereof," "hereto" and words of similar import shall be deemed references to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Section or other provision hereof;
(g) references to any agreement, instrument or other document mean such agreement, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and by this Agreement;
(h) references to any law (including statutes and ordinances) mean such law (including all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder) as amended, modified, codified or reenacted, in whole or in part, and in effect at the time of determining compliance or applicability;
(i) relative to the determination of any period of time, "from" means "from and including," "to" means "to but excluding" and "through" means "through and including";
(j) accounting terms used herein shall have the meanings historically ascribed to them by Morgan Stanley and its Subsidiaries, including Discover, in its and their internal accounting and financial policies and procedures in effect prior to the date of this Agreement;
(k) if there is any conflict between the provisions of the Distribution Agreement and this Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall control with respect to the subject matter hereof; if there is any conflict between the provisions of the body of this Agreement and the Schedules hereto, the provisions of the body of this Agreement shall control unless explicitly stated otherwise in such Schedule;
(l) the titles to Articles and headings of Sections contained in this Agreement have been inserted for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed to be a part of or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;
(m) any portion of this Agreement obligating a Party to take any action or refrain from taking any action, as the case may be, shall mean that such Party shall also be obligated to cause its relevant Affiliates to take such action or refrain from taking such action, as the case may be; and
(n) unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, all references to dollar amounts herein shall be in respect of lawful currency of the United States.
 
Section 2.01
. Active Employees.
(a) .Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, effective not later than the Distribution Date, the employment of each Discover Business Employee who is employed by Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary shall be assigned and transferred to Discover or a Discover Subsidiary. As of the Distribution Date, Discover shall and shall cause each Discover Subsidiary to continue the employment of each Discover Business Employee who is employed by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary. Discover shall, or shall cause the appropriate Discover Subsidiary to, honor any legal right of any Discover Business Employee or Former Discover Employee in a leave or other non-working status to return to work by providing such employee employment on terms that comply with such right.
Discover Business Employees
(b) . Effective not later than the Distribution Date, the employment of each Morgan Stanley Business Employee who is employed by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary shall be assigned and transferred to Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary. As of the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall and shall cause each Morgan Stanley Subsidiary to continue the employment of each Morgan Stanley Business Employee who is employed by Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary. Morgan Stanley shall, or shall cause the appropriate Morgan Stanley Subsidiary to, honor any legal right of any Morgan Stanley Business Employee or Former Morgan Stanley Employee in a leave or other non-working status to return to work by providing such employee employment on terms that comply with such right.
Morgan Stanley Business Employees
(c) . Notwithstanding the above or any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall create any obligation on the part of Morgan Stanley, Discover or any of their respective Affiliates to continue the employment of any employee for any definite period following the Distribution Date or to change the employment status of any employee from "at will."
At-Will Status
(d) . Concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the parties are entering into one or more Transition Services Agreements pursuant to which Morgan Stanley has agreed to provide certain services relating to the subject matter of this Agreement. In addition, and notwithstanding the foregoing, if and only to the extent necessary to preserve payroll, benefits, or other legal entitlements with respect to any employees (whether inside or outside the United States), a Discover Subsidiary and a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary may enter into one or more agreements whereby one such subsidiary may lease employees from another for a period of not more than three
Employee Secondment
 
calendar months following the Distribution Date. Any such agreement(s) shall require the company benefiting from the services of such employee(s) to fully reimburse the leasing company for the full cost of the employee(s) remuneration and shall contain other terms and conditions consistent with an arm's length commercial relationship between the leasing entity and the service recipient.
(e) . Neither the Distribution nor any of the assignment, transfer or continuation of the employment of employees in connection therewith shall be deemed a severance of employment of any employee for purposes of any plan, policy, practice or arrangement of Morgan Stanley, Discover or any of their respective Subsidiaries, except as otherwise provided herein.
Severance
Section 2.02
. Former Employees.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, each former employee of Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Subsidiary or Discover or any Discover Subsidiary as of the Distribution Date will be considered a former employee of the business as to which his or her duties were primarily related immediately prior to his or her termination of employment with all of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates.
General Principal.
(b) . For these purposes, former employees of Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries shall be deemed to include (i) all employees who, as of their last day of employment with all of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates, had employment duties primarily related to the Morgan Stanley Business and (ii) without limiting the foregoing, (x) all employees who, as of their last day of employment with all of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates were employed by Morgan Stanley entities providing institutional or asset management services, including, without limitation, Van Kampen Funds Inc., Miller Anderson & Sherrard, LLP, Discover Brokerage Direct, Barra, Inc. and any other former Affiliate of the Dean Witter or Morgan Stanley Asset Management or Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities group and (y) all former employees of Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation ("") whose last day of employment with MSCC and its Affiliates was on or after January 1, 2006 (collectively, the "").
Former Morgan Stanley Employees
MSCC
Former Morgan Stanley Employees
(c) . Former employees of Discover and the Discover Subsidiaries shall be deemed to include (i) all employees who, as of their last day of employment with all of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates, had employment duties primarily related to the Discover Business and (ii) without limiting the foregoing, (x) all employees who, as of their last day of employment with all of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates were employed by Sears Roebuck and Co./Sears Holdings Corporation, The Allstate Corporation, Coldwell Banker Real Estate Corporation, Sears
Former Discover Employees
 
Mortgage Corporation/Sears Mortgage Banking Group, Sears Savings Bank, any other former Sears Affiliate (other than an entity in the Dean Witter or Morgan Stanley Asset Management or Morgan Stanley Institutional Securities lines of business), former employees of SPS Payment Systems, Inc. and former employees of PULSE EFT Association LP and (y) all former employees of MSCC whose last day of employment with MSCC and its Affiliates was prior to January 1, 2006 (collectively, the "").
Former Discover Employees
Section 2.03
. Employment Law Obligations.
(a) . Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries shall be responsible for providing any necessary WARN notice (and meeting any similar state law notice requirements) with respect to any termination of any Morgan Stanley Business Employee. Discover and the Discover Subsidiaries shall be responsible for providing any necessary WARN notice (and meeting any similar state law notice requirements) with respect to any termination of any Discover Business Employee; ,, that Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries shall be responsible for providing any necessary WARN notice (and any similar state law notice requirements) to any Discover Business Employee or any governmental authority in connection with any transfer of the employment of any Discover Business Employee from a Morgan Stanley Group entity to a Discover Group entity in contemplation of the Distribution.
WARN Act
provided
however
(b) On and after the Distribution Date (i) Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries shall be responsible for adopting and maintaining any policies or practices, and for all other actions and inactions, necessary to comply with employment-related laws and requirements relating to the employment of the Morgan Stanley Business Employees and the treatment of the Former Morgan Stanley Employees in respect of their former employment with Morgan Stanley and its Affiliates and (ii) Discover and the Discover Subsidiaries shall be responsible for adopting and maintaining any policies or practices, and for all other actions and inactions, necessary to comply with employment-related laws and requirements relating to the employment of the Discover Business Employees and the treatment of the Former Discover Employees in respect of their former employment with Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Affiliates. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing (i) Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries shall be responsible for administering compliance with the Morgan Stanley Group employee leave policies and the FMLA (and any similar applicable state law) as relates to Morgan Stanley Business Employees following the Distribution Date and (ii) Discover and the Discover Subsidiaries shall be responsible for administering compliance with the Discover Group employee leave policies and the FMLA (and any similar applicable state law) as relates to Discover Business Employees following the Distribution Date.
Compliance With Employment Laws.
 
Section 2.04
. Employee Records.
(a) All records and data in any form relating to Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees shall be the property of Morgan Stanley, except that data pertaining to such an employee and relating to any period that such employee was employed by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary shall be jointly owned by Morgan Stanley and Discover.
Records Relating to Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees.
(b) All records and data in any form relating to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be the property of Discover, except that data pertaining to such an employee and relating to any period that such employee was employed by Morgan Stanley, Discover or any of their respective Subsidiaries prior to the Distribution shall be jointly owned by Morgan Stanley and Discover.
Records Relating to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees.
(c) The Parties shall provide each other such records and information only as necessary or appropriate to carry out their obligations under law, this Agreement or any other Distribution Document, or for the purposes of administering their respective employee benefit plans and policies. Records and data described in Section 2.04(b) available to Morgan Stanley, which are reasonably requested by Discover shall be provided to Discover as soon as reasonably practicable upon such request; provided Morgan Stanley shall use its reasonable best efforts to provide to Discover before the Distribution Date the records and data available to Morgan Stanley and listed on Schedule 2.04(c) hereof; and provided further that Discover shall reimburse Morgan Stanley for the reasonable costs and expenses associated with the provision of such records and data (including a reasonable allocable share of any compensation and overhead expense of personnel deployed to assist in the provision of such records and data, except to the extent that such cost is insignificant). Subject to applicable law, all information and records regarding employment and personnel matters of Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be accessed, retained, held, used, copied and transmitted after the Distribution Date by Discover in accordance with all laws and policies relating to the collection, storage, retention, use, transmittal, disclosure and destruction of such records.
Sharing of Records.
(d) To the extent consistent with this Agreement, access to such records after the Distribution Date will be provided to Morgan Stanley and Discover in accordance with the Distribution Agreement. In addition, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Morgan Stanley shall retain reasonable access to those records necessary for Morgan Stanley's continued administration of any plans or programs on behalf of Employees after the Distribution Date, provided that such access shall be limited to individuals who have a job-related
Access to Records.
 
need to access such records. Morgan Stanley shall also retain copies of all confidentiality and non-compete agreements with any Discover Business Employee or Former Discover Employee in which Morgan Stanley has a valid business interest.
(e) With respect to retaining, destroying, transferring, sharing, copying and permitting access to all such information, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall each comply with all applicable laws, regulations and internal policies, and each Party shall indemnify and hold harmless the other Party from and against any and all liability, claims, actions, and damages that arise from a failure (by the indemnifying party or its agents) to so comply with all applicable laws, regulations and internal policies applicable to such information.
Maintenance of Records.
(f) Except as set forth in the Distribution Agreement or any Transition Services Agreement(s), no provision of this Agreement shall give either Party direct access to the computer systems or other files, records or databases of the other Party, unless specifically permitted by the owner of such systems, files, records or databases.
No Access to Computer Systems or Files.
(g) The provisions of this Section 2.04 shall be in addition to, and not in derogation of, the provisions of the Distribution Agreement governing Confidential Information and access to and use of employees, information and records, including Sections 5.01 and 5.05 of the Distribution Agreement.
Relation to Distribution Agreement.
Section 2.05.
Morgan Stanley Executive Compensation Website.
(a) For a period of 12 months after the Distribution Date (the ""), Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be afforded access to the Morgan Stanley Executive Compensation Website (the "") in respect of equity awards relating to Discover shares. During such period, Discover shall not, and shall not allow any third party to:
Services Term
Website
(i) edit, modify, truncate, filter or change the order of the information contained on the Website including any Results Page or Destination Page, as such terms are defined below;
(ii) frame, obscure or modify the Website or any Results Page or Destination Page including (A) inserting any of Discover's Brand Features, as such terms are defined below, on the Website or any Results Page or Destination Page, (B) displaying any other material or content in connection with the Website or any Results Page or Destination Page other than such material or content provided by Morgan Stanley in connection therewith or (C) providing a version of any Results Page or Destination Page different from the page an employee would access by going directly to the Results Page or Destination Page;
 
(iii) display any information contained on the Website, including any Results Page or Destination Page, to any third parties other than the employee accessing such Website;
(iv) minimize, remove or otherwise inhibit the full and complete display of the Website or any Results Page or Destination Page;
(v) modify, adapt, translate, prepare derivative works from, decompile, reverse engineer, disassemble or otherwise attempt to derive source code from the Website or any other Morgan Stanley technology, content, data, routines, algorithms, methods, ideas, design, user interface techniques, software, materials, and documentation; or
(vi) remove, deface, obscure, or alter Morgan Stanley's copyright notice, trademarks or other proprietary rights notices affixed to or displayed on the Website or any Results Page or Destination Page, or any other Morgan Stanley technology, software, materials and documentation;
(b) Morgan Stanley and Discover agree that, as between them (i) Morgan Stanley shall own all right, title and interest, including without limitation all Intellectual Property Rights, as such term is defined below, relating to the Website, including any Results Page or Destination Page (and any derivative works or enhancements thereof), and its Brand Features, including but not limited to, all software, technology, information, content, materials, guidelines and documentation provided in connection therewith; (ii) Discover shall not acquire any right, title, or interest therein, except for the limited use rights expressly set forth in this Section 2.05, and (iii) any rights not expressly granted herein are deemed withheld and reserved to Morgan Stanley.
(c) Subject to the terms and conditions of this Section 2.05, Morgan Stanley grants to Discover a limited, nonexclusive, nontransferable and nonsublicensable license during the Services Term to access the Website and display Morgan Stanley's Brand Features in connection therewith, but in each case solely as provided in this Section 2.05.
(d) For purposes of this Section 2.05, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
(i) "" means the trade names, trademarks, service marks, logos, domain names, and other distinctive brand features of each party, respectively, as secured by such party from time to time.
Brand Features
 
(ii) "" means any web page on the Website which may be accessed by clicking on any link on the Website or any Results Page.
Destination Page
(iii) "" means any trademark, service mark, trade name, mask work, invention, patent, copyright, trade secret, know-how, software (including any goodwill associated therewith) or any other similar type of proprietary intellectual property right and all applications, renewals, extensions, restorations and re-instatements thereof, now or hereafter in force and effect worldwide.
Intellectual Property Rights
(iv) "" means the web page on which the results of the employee's query are displayed.
Results Page
Section 3.01Morgan Stanley and Discover shall take any and all action as shall be necessary or appropriate, so that each award of Morgan Stanley Stock Options issued and currently outstanding under any Morgan Stanley Equity Plan held at the time of the Distribution Date by a Discover Business Employee shall be adjusted, pursuant to the terms of the Morgan Stanley Equity Plans and the Morgan Stanley Stock Options, by converting such options into Discover Stock Options on the first trading day immediately following the Distribution. Such adjustment shall be effected by replacing such Morgan Stanley Stock Options with substitute Discover Stock Options in a manner such that on the first trading day immediately following the Distribution, (i) each such holder of a Morgan Stanley Stock Option will receive a number of substitute Discover Stock Options equal to the Conversion Ratio multiplied by the number of Morgan Stanley Stock Options held by such holder, and (ii) the per share option exercise price of each such Discover Stock Option will be determined by dividing the exercise price of the original Morgan Stanley Stock Option by the Conversion Ratio, and such adjustment shall be effected in a manner intended to satisfy requirements of Section 424 of the Code and avoid treatment of the Discover Stock Options as non-qualified deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Code. Such substituted Discover Stock Options will in the sole and absolute judgment of the Morgan Stanley CMDS Committee preserve the aggregate intrinsic value of the original Morgan Stanley Stock Options for which they are substituted and the ratio in the original option of the exercise price to the fair market value of the stock by adjusting the number of shares purchasable and the exercise price, based on a comparison of the Morgan Stanley Final Price and the Discover Initial Price. Fractional shares shall be adjusted or compensated by Morgan Stanley as appropriate in the sole discretion of the Morgan Stanley CMDS Committee. Such substitute Discover Stock Options will take into
. Stock Options.
 
account all employment with both Morgan Stanley and Discover, and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, for purposes of determining when the Discover Stock Options will become exercisable and/or vest.
Section 3.02Morgan Stanley and Discover shall take any and all action as shall be necessary or appropriate so that Discover Business Employees who hold Morgan Stanley RSUs will have each of their awards of Morgan Stanley RSUs adjusted pursuant to the terms of the Morgan Stanley Equity Plans and Morgan Stanley RSUs, by converting such Morgan Stanley RSUs into Discover RSUs on the first trading day immediately after the Distribution. Such adjustment shall be effected by replacing such Morgan Stanley RSUs with substitute Discover RSUs in a manner such that on the first trading day immediately following the Distribution each such holder of a Morgan Stanley RSU will receive a number of substituted Discover RSUs equal to the Conversion Ratio multiplied by the number of Morgan Stanley RSUs held by such holder. Such substituted Discover RSUs will take into account all employment with both Morgan Stanley and Discover, and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates, for purposes of determining when the Discover RSUs will vest and/or be paid. Such adjustment and replacement shall be conducted in a manner intended not to modify the treatment of the Discover RSUs under Section 409A of the Code from the treatment that would otherwise apply with respect to the corresponding Morgan Stanley RSU award. Fractional shares shall be adjusted or compensated by Morgan Stanley as appropriate in the sole discretion of the Morgan Stanley CMDS Committee.
. Restricted Stock Units.
Section 3.03Morgan Stanley, acting as the sponsor of the Morgan Stanley Equity Plans and as sole shareholder of Discover shall, and shall cause Discover to, take such actions and give or obtain such approvals as are necessary or desirable to ensure that the issuance of the Discover awards provided for in this Article 3 shall comply with all applicable tax, securities law and stock exchange requirements. The parties intend that each Discover Stock Option and Discover RSU (each, a "") shall be (i) granted pursuant to governing plan terms of a Discover Equity Plan which are substantially similar to the plan terms of the relevant Morgan Stanley Equity Plan under which the relevant predecessor award was granted and (ii) subject to the terms of the applicable award agreement under which the relevant predecessor award was granted (as such plan and award documents may have been duly amended from time to time), except to the extent that the terms of such Discover Adjustment Award shall be varied pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or by any action of Discover.
. Approval and Terms of Equity Awards.
Discover Adjustment Award
 
Section 3.04.
. Responsibility For Tax Withholding, Reporting, And Social Insurance Contributions
(a) Morgan Stanley and Discover agree that, unless prohibited by applicable law, Discover shall be responsible for all tax withholding and reporting obligations and shall pay the employer's share of any social insurance tax obligations that arise in connection with the grant, vesting, exercise, transfer or other settlement of the adjusted replacement awards held by Discover Business Employees. Morgan Stanley and Discover further agree that, unless prohibited by applicable law, Morgan Stanley shall be responsible for all tax withholding and reporting obligations and shall pay the employer's share of any social insurance tax obligations that arise in connection with the grant, vesting, exercise, transfer or other settlement of the equity awards held by Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Business Employees.
(b) With respect to equity awards held by Former Discover Employees, Morgan Stanley and Discover further agree that Discover shall be responsible for all tax withholding and reporting obligations and shall pay the employer's share of any social insurance tax obligations that arise in connection with the exercise, transfer or other settlement of such awards, and that Morgan Stanley shall transfer to Discover, on a timely basis after such event, to the extent that such event gives rise to tax withholding or reporting obligations for Discover, the amount in cash of any income tax withholding and employee's share of social insurance tax obligations, as well as any information regarding such event that Discover is obligated to report to the IRS, arising in connection therewith. For a period of two years following the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall act as the agent of Discover for purposes of withholding income and payroll taxes and reporting and remitting such amounts to the IRS arising from or in connection with the exercise or settlement of equity awards held by such Former Discover Business Employees in accordance with the terms of this Section 3.04(b) and the agreements referred to in paragraph (c) below; that Morgan Stanley's role as agent hereunder shall not extend to services which Morgan Stanley reasonably determines cannot practicably be performed by it, in light of applicable legal requirements and procedures of federal and state tax authorities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, during the second year of such two year period, Morgan Stanley shall not file or be responsible for filing Forms 940 or 941 on behalf of Discover, but in accordance with this Section 3.04(b) and with paragraph (c) below shall cooperate with Discover as necessary to timely provide the information needed by Discover for such forms in connection with the exercise and settlement of such equity awards. In addition, Morgan Stanley will remit to Discover for distribution through Discover payroll channels, all dividend equivalent amounts owing to Former Discover Business Employees in respect of outstanding Morgan Stanley equity awards. The agency and other services to be provided by Morgan Stanley pursuant to this Section 3.04 will be deemed to be "Services" being provided by Morgan Stanley as the "Provider" within the
provided, however
 
meaning of such terms as set forth in the Transition Services Agreement by and between Morgan Stanley and Discover dated as of June 30, 2007 (the ""), and such Services will be provided in accordance with and governed by the terms of such agreement.
Transition Services Agreement
(c) Morgan Stanley and Discover agree to enter into any necessary agreements, including but not limited to the Transition Services Agreement, regarding the subject matter of this Section 3.04 to enable them to fulfill their respective obligations hereunder, including but not limited to compliance with all applicable laws and regulations regarding the reporting, withholding or remitting of income and social insurance taxes.
Section 3.05For the avoidance of doubt, the Distribution will not constitute a "change of ownership" or a "change in control" or a termination of the employment of any employee for purposes of Morgan Stanley equity awards which are outstanding as of the Distribution Date.
. No Change of Control.
Section 4.01Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be treated for purposes of the Morgan Stanley ESPP as terminated Morgan Stanley employees as of and after the Distribution Date and shall be entitled to receive benefits in accordance with the provisions of the ESPP; provided, however, that Morgan Stanley may take such actions as it deems appropriate with respect to the shares of Discover Common Stock received by participant accounts under the Morgan Stanley ESPP as a result of the Distribution, including, without limitation, modification of the plan and notification to plan participants to facilitate (i) the retention of such shares within the participant's accounts under the plan in lieu of an automatic distribution of such shares to participants and/or (ii) an election by participants to receive distribution of such shares or direct the sale of such shares and the distribution of the proceeds of such sale to the participant; provided, further that Discover Business Employees shall not, as a result of any such changes, be treated any less favorably under the ESPP than similarly situated Morgan Stanley Business Employees. Discover Business Employees shall not contribute to the Morgan Stanley ESPP after the Distribution Date, unless they shall become employed by Morgan Stanley following the Distribution Date.
. ESPP.
 
Section 5.01
. General Principle.
(a) . Morgan Stanley and Discover shall take any and all action as shall be necessary or appropriate so that participation in Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans and Morgan Stanley Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements by all Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall terminate in connection with the Distribution as and when provided under this Agreement (or if not specifically provided under this Agreement, as of the close of business on the Distribution Date) and Discover and each Discover Subsidiary shall cease to be a participating employer under the terms of such Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans and Morgan Stanley Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements as of such time.
Cessation of Participation in Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans and Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements
Except as otherwise agreed below, Discover shall have all liabilities and all assets relating to employee benefits for Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees and Morgan Stanley shall have all liabilities and all assets relating to employee benefits for Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees.
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, effective as of the close of business on the Distribution Date, Discover shall assume or continue the sponsorship of, and none of Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Subsidiary shall have any further liability for or under, the following agreements, obligations and liabilities, and Discover shall indemnify Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries, and the officers, directors, and employees of each, and hold them harmless with respect to such agreements, obligations or liabilities:
Assumption of Certain Obligations by Discover Group
(i) Agreements entered into between Morgan Stanley, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees;
(ii) Agreements entered into between Morgan Stanley, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and independent contractors providing services primarily to the Discover Business;
(iii) All collective bargaining agreements, collective agreements, trade union, or works council agreements entered into between Morgan Stanley, its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and any union, works council, or other body representing only Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees;
 
(iv) All wages, salary, incentive compensation, commissions, bonuses and results share payable to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees on or after the Distribution Date, without regard to when such wages, salary, incentive compensation, commissions, bonuses and results share are or may have been earned;
(v) All moving expenses and obligations related to relocation, repatriation, transfers, or similar items incurred by or owed to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees;
(vi) All immigration-related, visa, work application, or similar rights, obligations and liabilities related to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees; and
(vii) All liabilities and obligations whatsoever of the Discover Business with respect to claims made by or with respect to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees or any other persons who at any time prior to the Distribution Date had employment duties primarily related to the Discover Business relating to any employee benefit plan, program or policy not otherwise retained or assumed by Morgan Stanley pursuant to this Agreement, including such liabilities relating to actions or omissions of or by Discover or any officer, director, employee or agent thereof prior to the Distribution Date.
Section 5.02Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, sponsorship of Morgan Stanley benefit plans that cover solely Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be transferred to Discover no later than the Distribution Date. Morgan Stanley benefit plans that cover Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees and that also cover Morgan Stanley Business Employees and/or Former Morgan Stanley Employees shall be split into two separate plans, one covering Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees and one covering Morgan Stanley Business Employees and/or Former Morgan Stanley Employees, and sponsorship of the plans covering Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be transferred to Discover immediately prior to the Distribution Date.
. Establishment of Discover Plans.
Section 5.03To the extent necessary to effectuate the foregoing, Discover and Morgan Stanley shall, in compliance with applicable law, transfer assets (if any) and liabilities of any such benefit plans to each other, including under the following plans:
. Transfer of Assets and Liabilities.
(i) the MS Pension Plan;
 
(ii) the MS 401(k) Plan;
(iii) the MS ESOP;
(iv) MS Excess Plan; and
(v) MS SERP.
Section 5.04Notwithstanding Section 5.02, Section 5.03, or any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the following plans in which both Morgan Stanley and Discover participate shall not be split:
. Exceptions.
(i) health, welfare and wellness plans described below in Section 8.01;
(ii) the MS ESPP; and
(iii) fringe benefit plans.
In addition, no transfer of assets or liabilities shall be made with respect to such plans.
Section 5.05Discover and Morgan Stanley and their respective Affiliates shall cooperate to share data necessary for each other to administer their respective benefit plans. Except as provided under any Transition Services Agreement(s) or in any secondment agreement that may be entered into in accordance with Section 2.01(d), neither Discover nor Morgan Stanley shall charge the other any fee for such cooperation. Except as set forth in the Distribution Agreement or any Transition Services Agreement(s), this provision shall not require Discover or Morgan Stanley to provide the other with direct access to such company's databases or records. This provision shall continue in effect as long as necessary.
. Cooperation.
Section 5.06
. Service Credit.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in any other provision of this Agreement (i) for purposes of participation eligibility and vesting under the Discover Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans, Discover shall, and shall cause the Discover Subsidiaries to, give to each Discover Business Employee and Former Discover Employee service credit for any employment with Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Affiliate prior to the Distribution Date to the extent that such service is taken into account pursuant to the terms of the comparable Morgan Stanley plan and (ii) for purposes of participation eligibility and vesting under the Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit
Service for Eligibility and Vesting.
 
Plans, Morgan Stanley shall, and shall cause the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries to, give to each Morgan Stanley Business Employee and Former Morgan Stanley Employee service credit for any employment with Discover or any Discover Affiliate prior to the Distribution Date, except under the MS SERP and MS Excess Plan; and provided, further, that the foregoing vesting service credit under any plan subject to Section 401(a) of the Code will be limited to the minimum amount of service credit required to fully vest the employee under the relevant plan.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in any other provision of this Agreement (i) for purposes of benefit levels and accruals, post-retirement welfare benefit contribution rates and benefit commencement entitlements under the Discover Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans, Discover shall, and shall cause the Discover Subsidiaries to, give to each Discover Business Employee and Former Discover Employee service credit for any employment with Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Affiliate prior to the Distribution Date to the extent that such service is taken into account pursuant to the terms of the comparable Morgan Stanley plan and (ii) for purposes of benefit levels and accruals, post-retirement welfare benefit contribution rates and benefit commencement entitlements under the Morgan Stanley Pension and Welfare Benefit Plans, Morgan Stanley shall, and shall cause the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries to, give to each Morgan Stanley Business Employee and Former Morgan Stanley Employee service credit for any employment with Discover or any Discover Affiliate prior to the Distribution Date (including under the MS Retiree Medical Plan and for determining the level of retirement credits under the post-July 1, 2007 retirement design under the MS Pension Plan).
Service for Benefit Purposes.
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, but subject to applicable law, upon reasonable request by one Party to the other Party, the first Party will provide to the other copies of any records available to the first Party to document such service, plan participation and membership and cooperate with the first Party to resolve any discrepancies or obtain any missing data for purposes of determining benefit eligibility, participation, vesting and calculation of benefits with respect to such Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees.
Evidence of Prior Service.
Section 5.07
. Plan Administration.
(a) Morgan Stanley will administer Discover's benefit programs for a transitional period under the terms of the applicable Transition Services Agreement, which will include appropriate provisions relating to HIPAA.
Transition Services.
(b) Discover shall, and shall cause the Discover Subsidiaries to, administer its benefit plans in a manner that does not jeopardize
Administration.
 
the tax favored status of the tax favored benefit plans maintained by Morgan Stanley and the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries. Morgan Stanley shall, and shall cause the Morgan Stanley Subsidiaries to, administer its benefit plans in a manner that does not jeopardize the tax favored status of the tax favored benefit plans maintained by Discover and the Discover Subsidiaries.
(c) All participant elections and beneficiary designations made under any Morgan Stanley plan prior to the date as of which assets or liabilities relating to that plan are transferred to Discover shall continue in effect under any plan maintained by Discover or any Discover Subsidiary to which liabilities are transferred pursuant to this Agreement until such time as the participant changes his or her elections or beneficiary designations in accordance with the procedures of the relevant plan, as the case may be.
Participant Elections and Beneficiary Designations.
Section 6.01Effective on or before the Distribution Date, Discover shall establish and adopt a defined benefit pension benefit plan and trust (the "") intended to be qualified under Code Section 401(a) and containing provisions that will provide to each Discover Business Employee and Former Discover Employee (and each alternate payee or beneficiary of such person) (the "") benefits identical to those accrued with respect to such person under the MS Pension Plan as of December 31, 2006 (the ""). On or before the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall (i) determine the Initial Transfer Amount (as defined below) and (ii) cause assets equal to the Initial Transfer Amount (adjusted as provided below) to be transferred to the trust under the Discover Pension Plan in the form described below (the ""). As of the date of such transfer of the Initial Transfer Amount (the ""), Discover shall commence making the required benefit payments under the terms of the Discover Pension Plan and shall assume all liabilities with respect to the payment of benefits previously accrued by the Discover Pension Beneficiaries under the MS Pension Plan. A Discover Business Employee shall not accrue benefits under the MS Pension Plan after the date on which such employee becomes eligible to participate under the Discover Pension Plan, unless such Discover Pension Beneficiary shall become employed by Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary after such date. A Morgan Stanley Business Employee shall not accrue benefits under the Discover Pension Plan, unless such Morgan Stanley Business Employee shall become employed by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary. For purposes of the provisions in the MS Pension Plan bridging service for breaks in service of less than 12 months, a break in the
. General Principle.
Discover Pension Plan
Discover Pension Beneficiaries
Pension Measurement Date
Initial Transfer
Initial Transfer Date
 
service of an employee which includes a period of service as a Discover Business Employee or Former Discover Employee following the Distribution shall not be counted as a bridgeable break in service. Following the Initial Transfer Date (i) an enrolled actuary appointed by Morgan Stanley (the "") shall determine the Final Pension Transfer Amount (as defined below) and (ii) a True-Up Adjustment shall be made with respect to the MS Pension Plan and the Discover Pension Plan, as provided below. The Parties shall use reasonable best efforts to cause the determination of the Final Pension Transfer Amount and the True-Up Adjustment to be completed as reasonably promptly as practicable, subject to the time frames established under Section 6.03, but in no event later than December 31, 2007. Before or promptly after the date hereof, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall file requests with the IRS for qualification determination letters under Code Section 401(a) with respect to the MS Pension Plan and the Discover Pension Plan and shall take any and all reasonable action, including the adoption of any amendments requested by the IRS, as shall be necessary to obtain such determination letters. The transfers hereunder shall occur prior to, but subject to the subsequent receipt of, favorable determination letters issued by the IRS with respect to the MS Pension Plan and Discover Pension Plan, copies of which shall be shared among Morgan Stanley and Discover promptly upon issuance.
MS Actuary
Section 6.02. On or before the Distribution Date, with the assistance of the MS Actuary, Morgan Stanley shall establish and communicate to Discover the amount equal to 95% of the amount carried on Morgan Stanley pension plan books as attributable to benefits accrued by Discover Pension Beneficiaries under the MS Pension Plan as of the Pension Measurement Date, adjusted for contributions, distributions, trust gains and losses, payments and other appropriate items as of the Initial Transfer Date, all as estimated in good faith by Morgan Stanley (the ""). Following the determination of the Initial Transfer Amount by Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley shall cause to be transferred from the trust under the MS Pension Plan to the trust under the Discover Pension Plan assets having an aggregate Value (as defined below) equal to the Initial Transfer Amount. Such assets shall be in the form of cash, securities and other property, determined in accordance with the provisions below.
. Determination and Transfer of Initial Transfer Amount
Initial Transfer Amount
Section 6.03
. Determination of the Final Pension Transfer Amount.
(a) Following the Distribution Date, the MS Actuary shall determine the Final Pension Transfer Amount, which shall be equal to the amount required to be transferred from the MS Pension Plan to the Discover Pension Plan in respect of the assumption by the Discover Pension Plan of the benefit obligations of the MS Pension Plan for benefits accrued by the Discover Pension Beneficiaries as of the Pension Measurement Date plus any additional pension obligations in respect of benefits accrued by the Discover
Calculation of the MS Actuary.
 
Pension Beneficiaries under the MS Pension Plan between the Pension Measurement Date and the Distribution Date, as determined in accordance with Section 414(l) of the Code and the regulations thereunder and the actuarial assumptions and methods set forth in Schedule 6.03 hereof, as appropriately adjusted to reflect the following amounts arising after the Pension Measurement Date and before the True-Up Adjustment: (A) any distributions and contributions made in respect of the Discover Pension Beneficiaries, (B) administrative expenses of the MS Pension Plan reasonably allocable to the Discover Pension Beneficiaries, (C) earnings realized by the MS Pension Plan, (D) the net gain or loss (realized and unrealized) of the MS Pension Plan and (E) other appropriate items (the ""). Morgan Stanley and Discover shall each cause the appropriate amount of assets to be contributed to the MS Pension Plan prior to the Distribution Date so that the MS Pension Plan is deemed to be fully funded as of December 31, 2006 and no ERISA Section 4044 allocation is required. Promptly upon determination of the Final Pension Transfer Amount, Morgan Stanley shall cause the MS Actuary to provide to Discover a written statement of the Final Pension Transfer Amount, a summary of the calculation of such amount (the "") and a written statement that the sum of the Initial Transfer Amount and the Final Transfer Amount satisfies the requirements of Section 414(l) of the Code.
Final Pension Transfer Amount
Pension Statement
(b) Morgan Stanley shall provide Discover with all information reasonably necessary to review the calculation of the Final Pension Transfer Amount in all material respects and to verify that such calculations have been performed in a manner consistent with the terms of this Agreement. The determination of the Final Pension Transfer Amount by the MS Actuary shall be final, conclusive and binding for all purposes under this Agreement, unless Discover provides to Morgan Stanley, within thirty (30) days after receipt of the Pension Statement, a written objection prepared by an enrolled actuary retained by Discover setting forth in detail a reasonable basis for the conclusion that the Final Pension Transfer Amount set forth in the Pension Statement is understated by an amount in excess of 5%. Upon receipt of such objection, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall make a good faith attempt to resolve their dispute as to the Final Pension Transfer Amount. Should such dispute remain unresolved for more than thirty (30) days, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall promptly select and appoint a third enrolled actuary who is mutually satisfactory to both Parties. The third actuary shall recalculate the Final Pension Transfer Amount and if such recalculated amount exceeds the Final Pension Transfer Amount set forth in the Pension Statement by more than 5%, then such recalculated amount shall serve as the Final Pension Transfer Amount for all purposes under this Agreement. If such recalculated amount does not exceed the Final Pension Transfer Amount set forth in the Pension Statement by more than 5%, then for all purposes under this Agreement the Final Pension Transfer Amount shall be the Final Pension Transfer Amount as set forth in the
Resolution of Differences.
 
Pension Statement. The recalculation of such third party actuary shall be completed within thirty (30) days of the retention of such third party actuary and shall be conclusive as to any dispute with respect to the Final Pension Transfer Amount, except as set forth in Section 6.06 below. The cost of such third party actuary shall be divided equally between Morgan Stanley and Discover. Each Party shall be responsible for the cost of its own actuary.
Section 6.04The following transfer shall be made promptly after the date that the Final Pension Transfer Amount is determined as set forth above: (A) if the Final Pension Transfer Amount exceeds the Initial Transfer Amount, Morgan Stanley shall promptly cause to be transferred from the MS Pension Plan trust to the Discover Pension Plan trust assets having a Value equal to such excess and (B) if the Initial Transfer Amount exceeds the Final Pension Transfer Amount, Discover shall promptly cause to be transferred from the Discover Pension Plan trust to the MS Pension Plan trust assets having a Value equal to such excess.
. True-Up Adjustment.
Section 6.05The assets to be transferred in the Initial Transfer and the True-Up Adjustment Assets will be transferred in-kind or in cash pro rata from each investment manager under the transferring plan in a manner that represents, as closely as commercially practical, a pro rata portion of each asset and position held by the manager as of the date of such transfer, except that reasonable adjustments shall be made where Morgan Stanley determines such transfers cannot reasonably be made by the MS Pension Plan due to investment manager account minimums or where other considerations prevent such pro rata transfers or render such pro rata transfers impractical. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in respect of long duration fixed income investments to be transferred from the MS Pension Plan to the Discover Pension Plan (i) a combination of cash and in-kind fixed income assets will be transferred from the MS Pension Plan to the Discover Pension Plan, (ii) such in-kind fixed income assets shall be transferred under accounts managed by State Street Global Advisors (no assets shall be transferred from other fixed income managers under the MS Pension Plan) and (iii) the Discover Pension Plan shall be entitled to an added amount equal to 50% of the investment transaction expenses associated with the initial investment of the cash transferred in respect of the fixed income component. For purposes of the Agreement, the "" of all pension assets shall be the value of such assets as determined in good faith by Morgan Stanley based on all relevant information known to Morgan Stanley at the time of such determination, including the most recent account statements or schedules of asset values provided to Morgan Stanley by any service providers maintaining or overseeing any such assets or any investment vehicles which represent or hold the relevant plan assets. Morgan Stanley shall select the assets to be transferred and provide a schedule of such assets to Discover 14 days prior to the transfer of such assets. Discover shall communicate to Morgan Stanley any objection to the schedule of the assets to be transferred promptly, and upon receipt by Morgan
. Form and Selection of Assets to be Transferred.
Value
 
Stanley of such objection, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall make a good faith attempt to resolve their dispute as to the assets to be transferred within the period remaining prior to the transfer of the assets. Should such dispute remain unresolved upon the asset transfer date, the assets shall be transferred in accordance with the schedule provided by Morgan Stanley. Any assets that are liquidated prior to transfer shall be reduced by the asset liquidation expenses actually incurred.
Section 6.06. . If, after the completion of the True-Up Adjustment, critical data used in the determination of the Final Pension Transfer Amount, the True-Up Adjustment or the Value of assets for purposes of the transfers under this Article 6 are determined to have been erroneous, the Final Pension Transfer Amount and True-Up Adjustment shall be recalculated using corrected data (but otherwise applying the same methodologies used to determine the Final Pension Transfer Amount) and upon completion of the recalculation Discover shall pay to Morgan Stanley, or Morgan Stanley shall pay to Discover, as the case may be, an amount necessary to reflect the corrected data; provided that no such correction payment shall be made unless the aggregate of all such correction adjustments is greater than 1% of the Final Pension Transfer Amount used for purposes of the original True-Up Adjustment. Any payment under this Section 6.06 shall be made by wire transfer in readily available funds. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.06, no payment or corrective adjustment shall be made by either Party with respect to an error unless the Party seeking such payment or adjustment has provided written notice identifying the specific error to the other Party prior to June 30, 2008.
Adjustment Payment for Data Errors
Section 7.01Effective on or before the Distribution Date, Discover shall establish and adopt a qualified employee cash or deferred arrangement under Code Section 401(k) (the "") containing a Discover common stock fund intended to be an employee stock ownership plan and a Morgan Stanley common stock fund, and intended to be qualified under Code Section 401(a) and containing provisions that will provide benefits for each Discover Business Employee and Former Discover Employee (and each beneficiary and alternate payee of such person) (the "") with equivalent benefit levels and forms of distribution to those in effect for the Discover DC Plan Beneficiaries as of the date of transfer of assets and liabilities with respect to such plans (as described below). Before or as soon as practicable after the Distribution Date, the assets and liabilities relating to the Discover DC Plan Beneficiaries under the MS 401(k) Plan and the MS ESOP shall be transferred to the Discover 401(k) Plan. Discover Business Employees
. General Principle.
Discover 401(k) Plan
Discover DC Plan Beneficiaries
 
shall not make or receive additional contributions under the MS 401(k) Plan and the MS ESOP after the effective date of the Discover 401(k) Plan, unless such Discover Business Employee shall become employed by Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary after such date. A Morgan Stanley Business Employee shall not participate in the Discover 401(k) Plan after the effective date of the Discover 401(k) Plan, unless such Morgan Stanley Business Employee shall become employed by Discover or a Discover Subsidiary after such date.
Section 7.02Effective before or as soon as practical following the Distribution Date, but in no event later than six months following the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall cause to be transferred from trusts under the MS 401(k) Plan and the MS ESOP to the trust under the Discover 401(k) Plan the aggregate amount that is credited to the accounts of the Discover DC Plan Beneficiaries (disregarding any participant loans from the plans) as of the date of transfer, but not less than or more than permitted by law, as determined by Morgan Stanley. The transfer shall be an in-kind transfer, subject to fund substitutions agreed between the relevant plan representatives and any other substitutions made by Morgan Stanley subject to the reasonable consent of the trustee of the Discover 401(k) Plan and shall include the transfer of the aggregate assets held in the accounts relating to each Discover DC Plan Beneficiary under the MS 401(k) Plan and MS ESOP and any participant loan notes held under such plans. Any assets that are liquidated prior to transfer shall be reduced by the asset liquidation expenses, such as commissions or early withdrawal penalties, actually incurred. Morgan Stanley shall cause the Discover 401(k) Plan to allocate the portion of any forfeiture account under the MS 401(k) Plan that relates to forfeitures by Former Discover Employees consistent with Morgan Stanley's past practice regarding allocation of forfeitures under the MS 401(k) Plan. Before or promptly after the date hereof, Morgan Stanley and Discover shall file requests with the IRS for qualification determination letters under Code Section 401(a) and 401(k) (as applicable) with respect to the MS 401(k) Plan, MS ESOP and Discover 401(k) Plan and shall take any and all reasonable actions, including the adoption of amendments requested by the IRS, as shall be necessary to obtain such determination letters. The transfers under this Section 7.02 shall occur prior to, but subject to the subsequent receipt of favorable determination letters issued by the IRS with respect to the MS 401(k) Plan, MS ESOP, Discover 401(k) Plan, copies of which shall be shared among Morgan Stanley and Discover promptly upon issuance.
. Transfer of Accounts.
Section 7.03Discover shall fund and allocate the full amount of any 2007 matching contribution accrued under the terms of the MS 401(k) Plan and MS ESOP to eligible Discover DC Plan Beneficiaries under the Discover 401(k) Plan within the time permitted by law (determined based on the terms of the MS 401(k) Plan and MS ESOP immediately prior to the transfer to the Discover 401(k) Plan as if the transfer to the Discover 401(k) Plan did not occur, but paid and contributed by Discover to the Discover 401(k) Plan).
. Funding of 2007 Matching Contribution.
 
Section 7.04Discover shall provide all proxy materials to the trustee of the MS 401(k) Plan and MS ESOP to the extent necessary to pass through the voting rights on any Discover shares held in the MS 401(k) Plan and MS ESOP. Morgan Stanley shall provide all proxy materials to participants in the Discover 401(k) Plan to the extent necessary to pass through the voting rights on any Morgan Stanley shares held in the Discover 401(k) Plan.
. Continuing Obligations Regarding Proxy Statement, Tender Offers and Similar Rights and Restrictions.
Section 8.01.
. General Principle and Exceptions
(a) . Except as provided below and in Section 8.02, on or about May 31, 2007, liabilities relating to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be transferred to newly established Discover welfare benefit plans that shall contain the same benefit provisions as in effect for Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees immediately prior to such date, and Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to participate in the Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plans. No assets shall be transferred on account of any such plans. Welfare benefit plans include health, welfare, and wellness benefits plans (including, medical, dental, prescription drug and vision benefits, life insurance, accidental death and disability insurance, business travel accident insurance, disability (STD and LTD), long term care, flexible spending accounts, severance, Employee Assistance Plan, wellness and similar types of plans). Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall not participate in Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plans following the effective date of the Discover plans described in this section, unless they shall become employed by Morgan Stanley after such date. Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees shall not participate in any Discover welfare benefit plans following the effective date of such plans, unless they shall become employed by Discover after such date.
General Principle
(b) . The following provisions shall supersede the provisions of Section 8.01(a) to the extent that the provisions of Section 8.01(a) are inconsistent with the following provisions:
Exceptions
(i) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall continue to be covered under the Mayo Clinic and Medical Decision Support wellness plans (except Harris Health Trends, which coverage shall terminate on or about May 31, 2007);
 
(ii) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees who participate in the Winged Keel portion of the Morgan Stanley LTD plan as of May 31, 2007 shall be permitted to continue those policies and maintain them on an individual basis;
(iii) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to be covered under the Morgan Stanley executive disability and life insurance plans on or about May 31, 2007, except that employees already contributing to an executive disability or life insurance policy shall be permitted to continue such policy on an individual basis;
(iv) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to be covered under the Morgan Stanley severance plan as of the Distribution Date;
(v) Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees shall cease to be covered under the Morgan Stanley SelectHealth Medical Option no later than the Distribution Date, the CMO contract for which shall be transferred to Discover effective no later than the Distribution Date;
(vi) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to be covered under the Morgan Stanley Kaiser Medical Options as of the Distribution Date; and
(vii) Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to be covered under the Morgan Stanley VEBA as of the Distribution Date.
Section 8.02
. Establishment of Discover Plans.
(a) . Subject to the provisions of 8.01 and this 8.02, Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall cease to participate in the Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plans on or about May 31, 2007. Discover shall indemnify Morgan Stanley for any liability relating to Discover Business Employees or Former Discover Employees on account of any such plan.
General Rule
(b) . Morgan Stanley shall retain the liability for payment of all covered claims (including medical, dental, life insurance and long-term disability) and expenses incurred by any Discover Business Employee and beneficiaries thereof under the Morgan Stanley Welfare Plans and Morgan Stanley Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements, and Discover shall not assume nor shall it be responsible for any liability with respect to any such claims or expenses. Discover shall have the liability only for covered claims incurred under the terms of the Discover Welfare Plans and Discover Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements.
Treatment of Claims Incurred
 
(c) . With respect to each Discover Business Employee and Former Discover Employee, and each covered dependent, beneficiary, or other related party of such individual (the ""), the Discover welfare benefit plans will give credit in the year of the Distribution Date for any amount paid under the comparable type Morgan Stanley plan by such Discover Welfare Plan Participant in the year of the Distribution Date toward deductibles, out-of-pocket maximum, or other, similar limitations to the extent such amounts are taken into account under the comparable type Morgan Stanley plan. For purposes of any life-time maximum out-of-pocket limit on expenses paid by a covered participant, the Discover welfare plans will recognize any expenses incurred by a Discover Welfare Plan Participant prior to the Distribution to the same extent such expenses would be recognized in respect of an active plan participant under the comparable type Morgan Stanley plan.
Credit for Deductibles and Other Limits
Discover Welfare Plan Participants
(d) . Effective as of the date of cessation of participation in the Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plans by the Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees (as provided above), Discover shall assume and satisfy all requirements under COBRA with respect to all Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees and their qualified beneficiaries, including for individuals who are already receiving benefits as of such date under COBRA.
COBRA
(e) The Parties intend that any Employee who has, prior to the Distribution Date, become eligible to receive any long-term disability benefits pursuant to any third-party insurance policy applicable under any welfare benefit plan shall continue to be eligible to receive such benefits in accordance with the terms of such plan and policy.
Disabled Persons.
Section 8.03. No assets held in the Morgan Stanley VEBA, the Morgan Stanley short term disability trust or any other trust, account or other funding vehicle shall be transferred between or on account of the Discover and Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plans, unless any such trust, account or funding vehicle shall have material net assets as of the Distribution Date, in which case the Parties shall negotiate in good faith to determine an equitable allocation of such assets.
. No Transfer of Assets
Section 8.04. To the extent any Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plan is funded through the purchase of an insurance contract, Morgan Stanley and Discover will cooperate and use their reasonable best efforts to "clone" such insurance contracts for Discover and to maintain any pricing discounts or other preferential terms for both Morgan Stanley and Discover
. Insurance Contracts
 
through the end of the term of the applicable Transition Services Agreement. Morgan Stanley shall not be liable for failure to obtain such pricing discounts or other preferential terms for Discover. The cost of "cloning", including any increases in premiums, charges or administrative fees relating to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be the obligation of Discover.
Section 8.05. . Except as provided below, to the extent any Morgan Stanley welfare benefit plan is administered by a third-party vendor, Morgan Stanley and Discover will cooperate and use their best efforts to "clone" any contract with such third-party vendor for Discover and to maintain any pricing discounts or other preferential terms for both Morgan Stanley and Discover. Morgan Stanley shall not be liable for failure to obtain such pricing discounts or other preferential terms for Discover. The cost of "cloning", including any increases in premiums, charges or administrative fees relating to Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall be the obligation of Discover. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the record keeping and administration contract between Morgan Stanley and ACS and the consulting agreements between Morgan Stanley and Mercer HR Consulting shall not be cloned.
Third Party Vendors
Section 9.01. .
General Principle and Exceptions
(a) . Except as otherwise provided under this Agreement, effective on or about May 31, 2007, Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees shall not be eligible to participate in any of the following Morgan Stanley fringe benefit plans:
General Principle
(i) the Morgan Stanley baby spoon program;
(ii) the Morgan Stanley service award program;
(iii) the Morgan Stanley adoption assistance program;
(iv) the Morgan Stanley commuter benefits plan;
(v) the Morgan Stanley legal assistance plan; and
(vi) any other plan, policy or arrangement of Morgan Stanley or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary providing fringe benefits to employees or former employees.
 
Section 9.02. .
Transition of Coverage Under Plans and Programs
(a) . Effective as of June 1, 2007, Discover shall adopt a commuter benefits plan for Discover Business Employees with substantially the same terms as in effect as of May 31, 2007 under the Morgan Stanley commuter benefits plan. No Morgan Stanley commuter benefits will paid to Discover Business Employees in respect of commutation occurring after the Distribution Date.
Commuter Benefit Plan
(b) . Legal assistance benefits will not be provided to Discover Business Employees under the Morgan Stanley legal assistance program in respect of legal services after the Distribution Date; provided, however, that if a Discover Business Employee has begun a representation under the Morgan Stanley legal assistance program on or prior to May 31, 2007, such representation shall be covered under the Morgan Stanley legal assistance program through December 31, 2007 in accordance with the terms of that program.
Legal Assistance Plan
(c) . Discover Business Employees who have reached their milestone anniversary on or prior to the date of the Distribution Date shall be entitled to receive a gift under the Morgan Stanley Service Award Program. Discover shall reimburse Morgan Stanley for the cost of providing such benefit in an amount determined consistently with the cost allocation method in effect prior to the Distribution Date. Discover Business Employees who reach their milestone anniversary after the Distribution Date shall not be eligible to receive a gift under the Morgan Stanley Service Award Program.
Service Award Program
(d) . Discover Business Employees who have completed an adoption that is eligible under the Morgan Stanley Adoption Assistance Program on or prior to the Distribution Date shall be entitled to benefits under that program. Discover shall reimburse Morgan Stanley for the cost of providing such benefits in an amount determined consistently with the cost allocation method in effect prior to the Distribution Date. Discover Business Employees who complete an adoption after the Distribution Date shall not be eligible to receive benefits under the Morgan Stanley adoption assistance program.
Adoption Assistance Program
(e) . Discover Business Employees who are employed as of Distribution Date and have given birth to a baby or completed an eligible adoption prior to the Distribution Date shall be entitled to receive a baby spoon under the Morgan Stanley baby spoon program. Discover shall reimburse Morgan Stanley for the cost of providing such benefit in an amount determined consistently with the cost allocation method in effect prior to the Distribution Date. Discover Business Employees who give birth or complete adoption of a child after the Distribution Date shall not be eligible to receive a baby spoon under the Morgan Stanley baby spoon program.
Baby Spoon Program
 
Section 10.01Discover shall have and assume the obligations for all claims and liabilities relating to workers compensation and unemployment compensation benefits for all Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees. Morgan Stanley shall have and assume the obligations for all claims and liabilities relating to workers compensation and unemployment compensation benefits for all Morgan Stanley Business Employees and Former Morgan Stanley Employees. Discover and Morgan Stanley shall make reasonable efforts to provide that workers compensation and unemployment insurance costs are not adversely affected for either of them by reason of the Distribution.
. Allocation of Workers Compensation and Unemployment Claims.
Section 11.01To the fullest extent permitted by the agreements and applicable law, Morgan Stanley hereby assigns, for and on behalf of itself and its Affiliates, to Discover or its appropriate Affiliate as designated by Discover all agreements containing restrictive covenants (including but not limited to confidentiality and non-competition provisions) between Morgan Stanley (or a Morgan Stanley Affiliate) and a Discover Business Employee, effective as of the Distribution Date. To the extent that assignment of such agreements is not permitted, following the Distribution, Discover and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall be considered to be successors to Morgan Stanley and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates for purposes of, and third-party beneficiaries with respect to, all agreements containing restrictive covenants (including but not limited to confidentiality and non-competition provisions) between Morgan Stanley (or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary or Affiliate) and Discover Business Employees and between Morgan Stanley (or a Morgan Stanley Subsidiary or Affiliate) and Morgan Stanley Employees whom Discover reasonably determines have substantial knowledge of the Discover Business, such that each of Morgan Stanley, Discover and their respective Subsidiaries and Affiliates shall all enjoy the rights and benefits under such agreements (including, without limitation, rights and benefits as a third-party beneficiary), with respect to such Party's and its respective Subsidiaries' and Affiliates' business operations; , , that (a) in no event shall Morgan Stanley be permitted to enforce the restrictive covenant agreements against Discover Business Employees for action taken in their capacity as employees of Discover or its Subsidiaries, and (b) in no event shall Discover be permitted to enforce the restrictive covenants agreements of Morgan Stanley Business Employees for action taken in their capacity as employees of Morgan Stanley or its Subsidiaries.
. Restrictive Covenants in Employment and Other Agreements.
provided
however
 
Section 11.02For a period of eighteen months following the Distribution (i) neither Discover nor any Discover Subsidiary shall employ or knowingly solicit for employment any individual who is, or was within the six-month period prior to the solicitation, an employee of Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Affiliate, without the written consent of Morgan Stanley and (ii) neither Morgan Stanley nor any Morgan Stanley Subsidiary shall employ or knowingly solicit for employment any individual who is, or was within the six-month period prior to the solicitation, an employee of Discover or any Discover Affiliate, without the written consent of Discover. The foregoing shall not apply (a) to any individual whose employment was involuntarily terminated by the relevant former employer or (b) with respect to general solicitations made through print, media or internet advertisements that are not directed or focused on such individuals and any resulting employment.
. Non-Solicitation of Employees.
Section 11.03(a) Effective as of the Distribution Date, Discover may establish one or more severance plans and policies with respect to Discover Business Employees as Discover deems appropriate in its discretion. Morgan Stanley shall have no liability or obligation under any Morgan Stanley severance plan or policy with respect to Discover Business Employees who remain employed or whose employment terminates on or after the Distribution Date.
. Severance.
(b) Following the Distribution Date, Morgan Stanley shall continue to be responsible for administering all payments and benefits under the applicable Morgan Stanley severance policies or any termination agreements with Former Discover Employees whose employment has terminated prior to the Distribution Date for an eligible reason under such policies or in accordance with such agreements; provided that Discover shall reimburse, and shall indemnify Morgan Stanley, and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, for any amounts payable to Former Discover Employees under such policies, and Discover shall be charged for the continuation of welfare plan benefits to such Former Discover Employees and their dependents on and after the Distribution Date on terms consistent with the methodology specified in the appropriate costs and reimbursement provisions of the applicable Transition Services Agreement.
(c) Morgan Stanley agrees to indemnify Discover against any loss or liability resulting from Morgan Stanley's gross negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith in the administration of its severance policies or any termination agreement with a Discover Business Employee.
(d) It is not intended that any Discover Business Employee will be eligible for termination or severance payments or benefits from Morgan Stanley or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates as a result of the transfer or change of employment from Morgan Stanley to Discover or their respective Subsidiaries or Affiliates. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in the event that any such termination or
 
severance payments or benefits become payable on account of such transfer, change or the refusal of a Discover Business Employee to accept employment with Discover, Discover shall indemnify Morgan Stanley, and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates, for the amount of such termination or severance payments or benefits.
Section 11.04Discover shall recognize and assume all liability for all vacation, holiday, sick leave, flex days, personal days and Paid-Time Off, including banked time, accrued by Discover Business Employees as of the Distribution Date and Discover shall credit each Discover Business Employee with such accrual.
. Accrued Vacation Days Off.
Section 11.05Discover will continue to apply the leave of absence policies maintained by Morgan Stanley to inactive Discover Business Employees who are on an approved leave of absence as of the Distribution Date. Leaves of absence taken by Discover Business Employees prior to the Distribution Date shall be deemed to have been taken as employees of Discover.
. Leaves of Absence.
Section 11.06Except as otherwise set forth herein, Morgan Stanley shall retain all reserves, bank accounts, trust funds or other balances maintained with respect to Morgan Stanley Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements.
. Morgan Stanley Assets.
Section 11.07(a) For purposes of this Section 11.07, "" shall mean, with respect to all Morgan Stanley non-qualified cash-based deferred compensation plans, the account balances under all such plans, as of June 30, 2007, of each Discover Business Employee and each Former Discover Employee who is a participant in any such plan. Morgan Stanley shall cause the Discover Deferred Compensation Accounts under any of such plans to be fully vested, for purposes of the respective plans, immediately prior to the Distribution Date. The aggregate employer liability in respect of the Discover Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be transferred to and assumed by Discover, except for any portion thereof that was credited to such account in respect of a period during which such employee was providing services to Morgan Stanley or to a Morgan Stanley affiliate other than Discover and its Subsidiaries.
. Morgan Stanley Deferred Compensation Plans.
Discover Deferred Compensation Accounts
(b) Beginning on the Distribution Date and continuing through the date of payment described herein, the return credited to the Discover Deferred Compensation Accounts shall be based exclusively on LIBOR, as determined by Morgan Stanley, reset monthly. On January 15, 2008, or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter, Morgan Stanley and Discover, as applicable, shall remit such account balances to the respective Discover Business Employees and Former Discover Employees.
 
Section 12.01The rights of Morgan Stanley or Discover to amend or terminate any plan, program, or policy referred to herein shall not be limited in any way by this Agreement.
. Preservation of Rights to Amend.
Section 12.02Each Party agrees that the specific terms and conditions of this Agreement and any information conveyed or otherwise received by or on behalf of a Party in conjunction herewith are confidential and are subject to the terms of the confidentiality provisions set forth in the Distribution Agreement.
. Confidentiality.
Section 12.03Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, as of and after the Distribution Date, Discover shall assume, and be solely liable for, the handling, administration, investigation and defense of actions, including, without limitation, ERISA, occupational safety and health, employment standards, union grievances, wrongful dismissal, discrimination or human rights and unemployment compensation claims, asserted at any time against Morgan Stanley, or Discover or their respective Affiliates by any Discover Business Employee or Former Discover Employee (including any dependent or beneficiary of any such Employee) or any other person, to the extent such actions or claims arise out of or relate to employment or the provision of services (whether as an employee, contractor, consultant, or otherwise) to or with the Discover Business. To the extent that any legal action relates to a putative or certified class of plaintiffs, which includes both Morgan Stanley Business Employees (or Former Morgan Stanley Employees) and Discover Business Employees (or Former Discover Employees) and such action involves employment or benefit plan related claims, reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Parties in responding to such legal action shall be allocated among the Parties equitably in proportion to a reasonable assessment of the relative proportion of Morgan Stanley Business Employees (or Former Morgan Stanley Employees) and Discover Business Employees (or Former Discover Employees) included in or represented by the putative or certified plaintiff class. The procedures contained in the indemnification and related litigation cooperation provisions of the Distribution Agreement shall apply with respect to each Party's indemnification obligations under this Section 12.03.
. Administrative Complaints/Litigation.
Section 12.04The Parties hereto agree to reimburse each other, within 30 days of receipt from the other Party of reasonable verification, for all costs and expenses which each may incur on behalf of the other as a result of any of the Welfare Plans, Pension Plans and Non-ERISA U.S. Benefit Arrangements and, as contemplated by Section 11.03, any termination or severance payments or benefits. All liabilities retained, assumed or indemnified against by Discover pursuant to this Agreement, and all liabilities
. Reimbursement and Indemnification.
 
retained, assumed or indemnified against by Morgan Stanley pursuant to this Agreement, shall in each case be subject to the indemnification provisions of the Distribution Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, no provision of this Agreement shall require Discover or any Discover Subsidiary to pay or reimburse to Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Affiliate any benefit-related cost item that Discover or any Discover Subsidiary has previously paid or reimbursed to Morgan Stanley or any Morgan Stanley Affiliate.
Section 12.05.Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement or any other Distribution Document, each Party shall pay its own expenses in fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement.
Costs of Compliance with Agreement.
Section 13.01Any notice, instruction, direction or demand under the terms of this Agreement required to be in writing shall be duly given upon delivery, if delivered by hand, facsimile transmission, or mail, to the following addresses:
. Notices.
 
Morgan Stanley
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
Attn: Martin M. Cohen, Director of Company Law
Facsimile: (212) 507-3334
with a copy to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Attn: Paul Kingsley, Esq./Jeffrey Small, Esq.
Facsimile: (212) 450-3277/(212) 450-3500
 
Discover Financial Services
2500 Lake Cook Road
Riverwoods, IL 60015
Attn: General CounselContracts
Facsimile: (224) 405-4584
 
or to such other addresses or telecopy numbers as may be specified by like notice to the other Party. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed given, (a) when delivered in person or by courier or a courier services, (b) if sent by facsimile transmission (receipt confirmed) on a Business Day prior to 5 p.m. in the place of receipt, on the date of transmission (or, if sent after 5 p.m., on the following Business Day) or (c) if mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested), on the date specified on the return receipt.
Section 13.02 . From and after the Distribution, any provision of this Agreement may be amended or waived if, and only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and signed, in the case of an amendment, by Morgan Stanley and Discover, or in the case of a waiver, by the Party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
.
Amendments; No Waivers
(a) No failure or delay by any Party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 13.03. The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns; that neither Party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the consent of the other Party hereto. If any Party or any of its successors or permitted assigns (i) shall consolidate with or merge into any other Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) shall transfer all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, proper provisions shall be made so that the successors and assigns of such Party shall assume all of the obligations of such Party under the Distribution Documents.
. Successors and Assigns
provided
Section 13.04. This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of laws rules thereof.
. Governing Law
Section 13.05. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. This Agreement shall become effective when each party hereto shall have received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto. Until and unless each party has received a counterpart hereof signed by the other party hereto, this Agreement shall have no effect and no party shall
. Counterparts; Effectiveness; Third-Party Beneficiaries
 
have any right or obligation hereunder (whether by virtue of any other oral or written agreement or other communication). Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof is intended to confer any rights, benefits, remedies, obligations, or liabilities hereunder upon any Person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns. No Employee or other current or former employee of Morgan Stanley or Discover or any Subsidiary or Affiliate of either (or his/her spouse, dependent or beneficiary), or any other person not a party to this Agreement, shall be entitled to assert any claim hereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, the provisions of this Agreement are not intended to, nor shall they confer upon any Person other than the Parties hereto any right or expectation as to the adoption, amendment, maintenance, continuation, operation or funding of any employee benefit plan, policy or arrangement.
Section 13.06. This Agreement and the other Distribution Documents constitute the entire understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof and supersede all prior agreements, understandings and negotiations, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and thereof. No representation, inducement, promise, understanding, condition or warranty not set forth herein or in the other Distribution Documents has been made or relied upon by any party hereto. Regardless of anything else contained herein, the parties do not intend for this Agreement to amend any employee benefit plans or arrangements.
. Entire Agreement
Section 13.07. Any Action seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby may be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or any other New York State court sitting in New York County, and each of the Parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding which is brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any Party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each Party agrees that service of process on such Party as provided in Section 13.01 shall be deemed effective service of process on such Party.
. Jurisdiction
Section 13.08THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
. WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
 
Section 13.09. . If any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement should be declared invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions contained in this Agreement shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby so long as the economic or legal substance of the transactions contemplated hereby is not affected in any manner materially adverse to any Party. Upon such a declaration, the Parties shall modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the Parties as closely as possible in an acceptable manner so that the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated as originally contemplated to the fullest extent possible.
Severability
Section 13.10. . All covenants and agreements of the Parties contained in this Agreement shall survive the Distribution Date indefinitely, unless a specific survival or other applicable period is expressly set forth herein.
Survival
Section 13.11. . The captions herein are included for convenience of reference only and shall be ignored in the construction or interpretation hereof.
Captions
Section 13.12. . Each Party to this Agreement acknowledges and agrees that damages for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of this Agreement would be inadequate and irreparable harm would occur. In recognition of this fact, each Party agrees that, if there is a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any damages, the other nonbreaching Party to this Agreement, without posting any bond, shall be entitled to seek and obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, attachment, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available to obligate the breaching Party (i) to perform its obligations under this Agreement or (ii) if the breaching Party is unable, for whatever reason, to perform those obligations, to take any other actions as are necessary, advisable or appropriate to give the other Party to this Agreement the economic effect which comes as close as possible to the performance of those obligations (including, but not limited to, transferring, or granting liens on, the assets of the breaching Party to secure the performance by the breaching Party of those obligations).
Specific Performance
Section 13.13Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, no individual who is a stockholder, director, employee, officer, agent or representative of Discover or Morgan Stanley, nor any individual employed or previously employed by Discover or Morgan Stanley or their respective Affiliates and serving or previously serving as a fiduciary of any benefit plan of Discover or Morgan Stanley or their respective Affiliates (or any body consisting of such individuals), in his, her or its capacity as such, shall have any liability in respect of or relating to the covenants or obligations of Discover or Morgan Stanley under this Agreement and, to the fullest extent legally
. Limited Liability.
 
permissible, each of Discover and Morgan Stanley, for itself and its respective stockholders, directors, employees, officers and Affiliates, waives and agrees not to seek to assert or enforce any such liability that any such Person otherwise might have pursuant to applicable law.
Section 13.14This Agreement shall be deemed to be the joint work product of Morgan Stanley and Discover and any rule of construction that a document shall be interpreted or construed against a drafter of such document shall not be applicable.
. Mutual Drafting.
Section 13.15.
Implementation.
(a) The parties shall use an operating committee (the "") to implement the terms of this Agreement. Each of Morgan Stanley and Discover shall appoint an equal number of employees to the Operating Committee, such number to be as Morgan Stanley and Discover shall agree as appropriate. The Operating Committee will oversee the implementation and ongoing operation of this Agreement and shall attempt in good faith to resolve disputes between the parties. Each of the parties shall have the right to replace one or more of its Operating Committee members at any time with employees or officers with comparable knowledge, expertise and decision-making authority.
Operating Committee
(b) The Operating Committee shall act by a majority vote of its members. If the Operating Committee fails to make a decision, resolve a dispute or agree upon any necessary action, the unresolved matter shall be referred to a Senior Officer of each of Morgan Stanley and Discover notified to the other party for such purpose from time to time, who shall attempt in good faith within a period of 14 days to conclusively resolve any such matter.
(c) During the term of this Agreement, the full Operating Committee shall meet at such times as it considers appropriate. Meetings of the Operating Committee may be in person or via teleconference and shall be convened and held in accordance with such procedures as the Operating Committee may determine from time to time.
Section 13.16Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the Distribution Agreement is terminated prior to the Distribution Date, this Agreement shall be of no further force and effect.
. Effect if Distribution Does Not Occur.
Section 13.17The officers of Morgan Stanley and Discover are hereby authorized, empowered and directed, in the name and on behalf of each of Morgan Stanley and Discover, respectively, to take or cause to be taken all such further action, to execute and deliver or cause to be executed and delivered all such further agreements, certificates, instruments and documents, to
. Corporate Authorization.
 
make or cause to be made all such filings with governmental or regulatory authorities, and to pay or cause to be paid all such fees and expenses, in each case which shall in such officers' judgment be deemed necessary, proper or advisable to effect and carry out the intent of this Agreement, such determination to be evidenced conclusively by such officers' execution and delivery thereof or taking of action in respect thereto.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed in their names by a duly authorized officer as of the date first written above.
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
 
 
This Transition Services Agreement (this "") is entered into as of June 30, 2007 by and between Morgan Stanley, a Delaware corporation (""), and Discover Financial Services, a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Morgan Stanley
Discover
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley and Discover have entered enter into a Separation and Distribution Agreement (as defined below) providing for the distribution by Morgan Stanley to its shareholders of all of the common stock of Discover that is held by Morgan Stanley;
WHEREAS, Morgan Stanley has heretofore directly or indirectly provided certain services to members of the Discover Group (as defined below); and
WHEREAS, Discover has heretofore directly or indirectly provided certain services to the Morgan Stanley Group (as defined below).
NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, Morgan Stanley and Discover, for themselves, their successors and permitted assigns, hereby agree as follows:
Section 1.01(a) As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall have the following meanings, applicable both to the singular and the plural forms of the terms described:
. Definitions.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.03.
Actions
"" has the meaning set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement; that the Affiliates of each party for purposes of this Agreement shall be determined after giving effect to the consummation of the Distribution.
Affiliate
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Agreement
"" means, with respect to any Person, any federal, state, local or foreign law (statutory, common or otherwise), constitution, treaty, convention, ordinance, code, rule, regulation, order, injunction, judgment, decree, ruling, directive, guidance, instruction, direction, permission, waiver, notice,
Applicable Law
condition, limitation, restriction or prohibition or other similar requirement enacted, adopted, promulgated, imposed, issued or applied by a Governmental Authority that is binding upon or applicable to such Person, its properties or assets or its business or operations, as amended unless expressly specified otherwise.
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.04.
Baseline Period
"" means a day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York, New York are authorized or required by law to close.
Business Day
"" means, with respect to Morgan Stanley or Discover, (i) the direct or indirect acquisition (by merger, consolidation, business combination or otherwise) by any Person or group of Persons of beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-1 and Rule 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 50% or more of the Total Voting Power of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, (ii) any merger, consolidation or other business combination of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, or a Subsidiary of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, with any Person after giving effect to which (x) the shareholders of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, immediately prior to such transaction do not own at least 50% of the Total Voting Power of the ultimate parent entity of the parties to such transaction or (y) individuals who were directors of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, immediately prior to such transaction (or their designees) do not constitute a majority of the board of directors of such ultimate parent entity, and (iii) the direct or indirect acquisition by any Person or group of Persons of all or substantially all of the assets of Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable.
Change of Control
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.01.
Confidential Information
"" means the European Commission Data Protection Directive (95/46/EC) or Data Protection Act 1998 or any implementing or related legislation of any member state in the European Economic Area.
Data Protection Laws
"" means the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner or any successor thereto.
Delaware Commissioner
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Discover
"" means any member of the Discover Group.
Discover Entity
"" means Discover and its Subsidiaries as of and after the Distribution Date.
Discover Group
"" means any computer software program or routine or part thereof owned, licensed or provided by any Discover Entity or its suppliers on
Discover Systems
 
any Discover Entity's behalf, each as modified, maintained or enhanced from time to time by any Discover Entity, any Morgan Stanley Entity or any third party.
"" has the meaning set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement.
Distribution
"" has the meaning set forth in the Separation and Distribution Agreement.
Distribution Date
"" means the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation or any successor thereto.
FDIC
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.05.
force majeure
"" means the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority or any successor thereto.
FSA
"" means any multinational, foreign, federal, state, local or other governmental, statutory or administrative authority, regulatory body or commission or any court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral authority which has any jurisdiction or control over either party (or their Affiliates), including without limitation the FSA, FDIC and the Delaware Commissioner.
Governmental Authority
"" means the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, or any successor federal statute thereto, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as may be amended or supplemented from time to time.
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act
"" means the Discover Group or Morgan Stanley Group as applicable.
Group
"" means with respect to either party, as applicable, (i) the making by such party of any assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets or the admission by such party in writing of its inability to pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due; (ii) the adjudication of such party as bankrupt or insolvent or the filing by such party of a petition or application to any tribunal for the appointment of a trustee or receiver for such party or any substantial part of the assets of such party; or (iii) the commencement of any voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceedings (and, with respect to involuntary bankruptcy proceedings, the failure to be discharged within 60 days), reorganization proceedings or similar proceeding with respect to such party or the entry of an order appointing a trustee or receiver or approving a petition in any such proceeding.
Insolvency Event
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03(a).
Invoice Date
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble hereto.
Morgan Stanley
 
"" means any member of the Morgan Stanley Group.
Morgan Stanley Entity
"" means Morgan Stanley and its Subsidiaries (other than any Subsidiary or member of, or other entity in, the Discover Group) as of and after the Distribution Date.
Morgan Stanley Group
"" means any computer software program or routine or part thereof owned, licensed or provided by any Morgan Stanley Entity or its suppliers on any Morgan Stanley Entity's behalf, each as modified, maintained or enhanced from time to time by any Morgan Stanley Entity, any Discover Entity or any third party.
Morgan Stanley Systems
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.08.
Non-Compliance Notice
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(c).
Payer
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(c).
Payee
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.03(b).
Payment Date
"" means individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a governmental or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
"" means personally identifiable information as defined under applicable Data Protection Laws of either party which the other party receives or to which the other party otherwise has access.
Personal Information
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 8.01.
Prior Agreements
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Provider
"" means any member of the Provider Group.
Provider Entity
"" means, as the context requires, the Discover Group or the Morgan Stanley Group.
Provider Group
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.02.
Provider Indemnified Person
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Recipient
"" means any member of the Recipient Group.
Recipient Entity
"" means, as the context requires, the Discover Group or the Morgan Stanley Group.
Recipient Group
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.04.
Recipient Indemnified Person
"" means a Schedule attached hereto forming part of this Agreement and "Schedules" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Schedule
"" means the Separation and Distribution Agreement dated as of June 29, 2007, by and between Morgan Stanley and Discover.
Separation and Distribution Agreement
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.01.
Service Costs
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Services
"" means, with respect to any Person, any other entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons performing similar functions are at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person; that for the purposes of Sections 2.02, 2.03 and 4.01, shall be limited to those Subsidiaries of a Person as at the Distribution Date only and any Subsidiaries formed in connection with any internal reorganization of such Person.
Subsidiary
provided
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(b).
Supplier
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(b).
Supply Recipient
"" means Goldfish Bank Limited, Goldfish Card Services Limited, Goldfish Credit Enhancing, Inc., Goldfish Credit Servicing, Inc. and Goldfish Procurement, Inc.
Supported Companies
"" means the Morgan Stanley Systems or the Discover Systems, individually, or the Morgan Stanley Systems and the Discover Systems, collectively, as the context may indicate or require.
Systems
"" means any tax, levy, impost, duty or other similar charge (including any penalty or interest payable in connection with any failure to pay or delay in paying the same).
Tax
"" means, with respect to any Person, the total combined voting power of all securities of such Person entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such Person.
Total Voting Power
"" means the Transfer of Undertakings (Protection of Employment) Regulations 2006, as amended or superseded from time to time.
UK Transfer Regulations
 
"" means value added tax implemented by member states of the European Union pursuant to Directive 2006/112/EC and legislation supplemental thereto, and any tax of a similar nature imposed under the laws of any jurisdiction which is not a member state of the European Union.
VAT
Section 2.01On the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and in consideration of the Service Costs described below, each of Morgan Stanley and Discover (each in its capacity as provider of Services, "") agrees to provide to the other party (in its capacity as recipient of Services, ""), or procure the provision to Recipient of, and Recipient agrees to purchase from Provider, the transition services (the "") as set forth on the Schedules.
. Purchase and Sale of Services.
Provider
Recipient
Services
Section 2.02It is understood that (i) except as provided in this Section 2.02, the Services to be provided to Recipient under this Agreement shall, at Recipient's request, be provided to any Person that is a Subsidiary of Recipient and (ii) Provider may satisfy its obligation to provide or procure Services hereunder by causing one or more of its Subsidiaries to provide or procure such Services. With respect to Services provided to, or procured on behalf of, any Subsidiary of Recipient, Recipient agrees to pay on behalf of such Subsidiary all amounts payable by or in respect of such Services pursuant to this Agreement. Recipient agrees that Provider shall only be required to provide the Services specified in Schedules UKM25 to UKM45 and UKM58 to UKM60 to the relevant Supported Companies. The immediately preceding sentence shall not be deemed to limit the rights of the Supported Companies to receive any additional Services in accordance with Section 2.03.
. Subsidiaries.
Section 2.03. Except for the Services expressly contemplated to be provided in accordance with Section 2.01 and this Section 2.03, Provider shall have no obligation under this Agreement to provide any services to the Recipient Group. Provider agrees to (i) consider in good faith (but shall have no obligation to accept) any requests by Recipient for the provision of any continued or additional services that Recipient considers are reasonably necessary to accommodate normal growth in Recipient's business and (ii) use reasonable efforts in good faith to provide continued or additional services that Recipient considers are reasonably necessary to transfer responsibility for the provision of any Services from Provider to Recipient or any third party as Recipient may designate during the term of this Agreement, and upon termination or expiration of any Service or of this Agreement, including as to data migration. Any such continued or additional services will be on such terms and conditions (including pricing) as the parties shall mutually agree.
. Additional Services
 
Section 2.04. If it is necessary for Recipient to provide any services or resources to Provider or any third party regarding any aspect of the Recipient Group business or Services (the "") so that Provider, any Subsidiary of Provider or third party provider may provide or have provided the Services hereunder, Recipient shall provide such services or resources (i) in a timely and effective manner; (ii) without cost to Provider, any Subsidiary of Provider or any third party and (iii) in a manner that ensures that the nature, quality and standard of care of the Recipient Services provided shall be substantially the same as have been provided by the Recipient Group's business during the twelve months prior to the date hereof (such twelve-month period, the "").
. Services Provided by Recipient
Recipient Services
Baseline Period
Section 2.05. . Provider and Recipient shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain all governmental or third party licenses and consents required for the provision of any Service by Provider in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; that the costs relating to obtaining any such licenses or consents shall be borne by Recipient; that Provider shall not be required to provide such Service (x) unless and until the required licenses and/or consents have been obtained or (y) in the event the required licenses and/or consents are terminated or revoked.
Third Party Licenses and Consents
provided
provided further
Section 3.01. Unless any Schedule hereto indicates otherwise or the parties shall agree in writing to a different arrangement, for each period in which Recipient receives a Service hereunder, Recipient shall pay Provider such fees and costs as set forth in hereto ("") which costs shall be adjusted appropriately in the event of the termination of any Service or as otherwise contemplated by this Agreement.
. Service Costs Generally
Exhibit A
Service Costs
Section 3.02(a) Recipient shall pay all applicable sales or use taxes incurred with respect to provision of the Services. These taxes shall be incremental to other payments or charges identified in this Agreement.
. Taxes.
(b) All amounts to be paid under this Agreement shall be exclusive of VAT, if any. Where, under this Agreement, any person (the "") makes or is deemed to make a supply to another person (the "") for VAT purposes and VAT is or becomes chargeable in respect of such supply, the Supply Recipient shall pay to the Supplier an amount equal to such VAT: (i) where the consideration for such supply consists wholly of money, at the same time as paying such consideration; or (ii) where the consideration does not consist wholly of money, on or before the later of the date which is 30 days after the date on
Supplier
Supply Recipient
 
which such VAT is demanded in writing or when the supply is made; that the Supply Recipient shall first have received an invoice in respect of such supply.
provided
(c) Where this Agreement requires any party (the "") to reimburse another party (the "") for any costs or expenses, the Payer shall also at the same time pay and indemnify the Payee against all VAT incurred by the Payee in respect of the costs or expenses to the extent that the Payee determines that neither it, nor any other member of any group of which it is a member for VAT purposes, is entitled to credit or repayment from the relevant tax authority in respect of VAT.
Payer
Payee
(d) All sums payable under this Agreement shall be paid free and clear of all deductions or withholdings unless the deduction or withholding is required by law, in which event the amount of the payment due from the party required to make such payment (other than amounts of interest) shall be increased to an amount which after any withholding or deduction leaves an amount equal to the payment which would have been due if no such deduction or withholding had been required.
Section 3.03. (a) Unless any Schedule hereto indicates otherwise or the parties shall agree in writing to a different arrangement, Provider shall invoice or notify in writing on a monthly basis (not later than the 15th day of each month) an officer of Recipient designated by Recipient from time to time for such purpose (the date of delivery of such invoice being referred to herein as the "").
. Invoicing and Settlement of Costs
Invoice Date
(b) Recipient agrees to pay on or before the date (each, a "") that is 45 days after the Invoice Date by wire transfer of immediately available funds payable to the order of Provider all amounts invoiced by Provider pursuant to Section 3.03(a). If Recipient fails to pay any monthly payment on or before the relevant Payment Date, Recipient shall be obligated to pay, in addition to the amount due on such Payment Date, to the extent permitted by Applicable Law, interest on such amount at the rate of 6% per annum compounded monthly from the relevant Payment Date through the date of payment.
Payment Date
Section 4.01. (a) The level or volume of any specific Service required to be provided to Recipient hereunder shall not exceed the level or volume of such Service as historically utilized by the Recipient Group during the Baseline Period. In providing any Service, Provider shall have no obligation to allocate human, equipment or other resources in excess of the level of resources historically allocated to the provision to the Recipient Group of such Service by Provider during the Baseline Period.
. Standards of Service
 
(b) The manner, nature, quality and standard of care applicable to the delivery by Provider of the Services hereunder shall be substantially the same as that of similar services which Provider provides from time to time throughout its business.
(c) Provider agrees that all Services it provides or causes to be provided will be provided in compliance with Applicable Law.
(d) If any member of the Recipient Group shall purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any business, assets or properties or rights in respect thereof, Provider shall have no obligation to provide any Services hereunder in respect of such acquired business, assets or properties.
Section 4.02It is understood and agreed that Provider may from time to time modify, change or enhance the manner, nature, quality and/or standard of care of any Service provided to Recipient to the extent Provider is making a similar change in the performance of such services for the Provider Group and provided that any such modification, change or enhancement will not reasonably be expected to have a material adverse effect on such Service. Provider shall furnish to Recipient substantially the same notice (in content and timing), if any, as Provider furnishes to its own organization with respect to such modifications, changes or enhancements. Any incremental expense incurred by Provider in making any such modification, change or enhancement to the Services performed hereunder or in providing such Services on an ongoing basis shall be taken into account in the calculation of Service Costs as contemplated by Section 2.01.
. Changes to the Services.
Section 4.03Except as may otherwise be expressly provided in this Agreement, the management of and control over the provision of the Services by Provider shall reside solely with Provider and notwithstanding anything to the contrary Provider shall be permitted to choose the methodology, systems and applications it utilizes in the provision of such Services. The provision, use of and access to the Services shall be subject to (i) any technical and operational changes that may be required to manage any restrictions imposed by Provider in respect of data access; (ii) Providers' business, operational and technical environment, standards, policies and procedures as may be modified from time to time; (iii) any Recipient Services and/or other third party services, resources or dependencies; (iv) any Applicable Law; and (v) the terms of this Agreement.
. Management of Services By Provider.
Section 4.04(a) The parties shall use an operating committee (the "") to implement the terms of this Agreement. Each of Morgan Stanley and Discover shall appoint an equal number of employees to the Operating Committee, such number to be as Morgan Stanley and Discover shall agree as appropriate from time to time. The Operating
. Operating Committee.
Operating Committee
 
Committee will oversee the implementation and ongoing operation of this Agreement and shall attempt in good faith to resolve disputes between the parties. Each of the parties shall have the right to replace one or more of its Operating Committee members at any time with employees or officers with comparable knowledge, expertise and decision-making authority.
(b) The Operating Committee shall act by a majority vote of its members. If the Operating Committee fails to make a decision, resolve a dispute or agree upon any necessary action, the unresolved matter shall be referred to a senior officer of each of Morgan Stanley and Discover notified to the other party for such purpose from time to time, who shall attempt in good faith within a period of 14 days to conclusively resolve any such matter.
(c) During the term of this Agreement, the full Operating Committee shall meet at such times as it considers appropriate. Meetings of the Operating Committee may be in person or via teleconference and shall be convened and held in accordance with such procedures as the Operating Committee may determine from time to time.
Section 4.05. Each party will maintain and operate and shall use reasonable efforts to ensure that all material subcontractors shall maintain and operate contingency, business continuity and disaster recovery facilities and procedures for the purposes of performing its obligations under this Agreement consistent with the facilities and procedures maintained and operated by such party in respect of its business generally.
Disaster Recovery and BCP.
Section 5.01EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE SERVICES ARE PROVIDED "AS-IS" WITH NO WARRANTIES, AND PROVIDER EXPRESSLY EXCLUDES AND DISCLAIMS ANY WARRANTIES UNDER OR ARISING AS A RESULT OF THIS AGREEMENT, WHETHER EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT OR ANY OTHER WARRANTY WHATSOEVER.
. EXCLUSION OF WARRANTIES.
Section 5.02. . (a) Recipient agrees that none of the members of the Provider Group and their respective directors, officers, agents, and employees (each, a "") shall have any liability, whether direct or indirect, in contract or tort or otherwise, to any Recipient Entity or any other Person for or in connection with the Services rendered or to be
Limitation of Liability
Provider Indemnified Person
 
rendered by or on behalf of any Provider Indemnified Person pursuant to this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or any actions or inactions by or on behalf of Provider Indemnified Person in connection with any such Services or transactions, except (i) to the extent any damages have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Provider Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with any such Services, actions or inactions or (ii) as contemplated by Section 7.05(d).
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 5.02(a), none of the members of the Provider Group shall be liable for any special, indirect, incidental, consequential or punitive damages of any kind whatsoever in any way due to, resulting from or arising in connection with any of the Services or the performance of or failure to perform Provider's obligations under this Agreement. This disclaimer applies without limitation (i) to claims arising from the provision of the Services or any failure or delay in connection therewith, (ii) to claims for lost profits, (iii) regardless of the form of action, whether in contract, tort (including negligence), strict liability, or otherwise, and (iv) regardless of whether such damages are foreseeable or whether any member of the Provider Group has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
(c) None of the members of the Provider Group shall have any liability to any Recipient Entity or any other Person for failure to perform Provider's obligations under this Agreement or otherwise, where such failure to perform is not caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Provider Entity providing such Services and such failure to perform similarly affects the Provider Group receiving such Services and does not have a disproportionately adverse effect on the Recipient Group, taken as a whole.
(d) In addition to the foregoing, Recipient agrees that it shall, in all circumstances, use commercially reasonable efforts to mitigate and otherwise minimize its damages and those of the other Recipient Entities, whether direct or indirect, due to, resulting from or arising in connection with any failure by Provider to comply fully with its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 5.03.. Recipient agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Provider Indemnified Person from and against any damages, and to reimburse each Provider Indemnified Person for all reasonable expenses as they are incurred in investigating, preparing, pursuing, or defending any claim, action, proceeding, or investigation, whether or not in connection with pending or threatened litigation and whether or not any Provider Indemnified Person is a party (collectively, ""), arising out of or in connection with Services rendered or to be rendered by or on behalf of any Provider Indemnified Person pursuant to this Agreement, the transactions contemplated hereby or any actions or inactions by or on behalf of any Provider Indemnified Person in connection with any such Services or transactions;
Indemnification of Provider by Recipient
Actions
provided
 
that Recipient shall not be responsible for any damages of any Provider Indemnified Person to the extent such damages have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from such Provider Indemnified Person's gross negligence or willful misconduct in connection with any of such Services, actions or inactions (it being understood and agreed that the provision by any Provider Entity of any of the Services without obtaining the consent of any party to any contract or agreement to which any Provider Entity is a party as of the date hereof shall not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct by any Provider Entity; that the relevant Provider Entity has used commercially reasonable efforts to obtain the relevant consent).
provided
Section 5.04. . Provider agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each member of the Recipient Group and their respective directors, officers, agents, and employees (each, a "") from and against any damages, and shall reimburse each Recipient Indemnified Person for all reasonable expenses as they are incurred in investigating, preparing, or defending any Action, to the extent such damages have been finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to have arisen out of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of any Provider Indemnified Person in connection with the Services rendered or to be rendered pursuant to this Agreement.
Indemnification of Recipient by Provider
Recipient Indemnified Person
Section 5.05If a party is required to make any payment under Section 5.03 or 5.04, it shall upon demand pay to the Person receiving such payment an amount equal to any loss, liability or cost which the receiving Person determines will or has been (directly or indirectly) suffered or incurred on account of Tax by the receiving Person in respect of such payment, net of any Tax benefit arising in respect of the damages giving rise to such payment.
. Taxes.
Section 5.06 Except for the termination rights provided under Sections 6.02(b) and 6.02(c), the indemnification provisions of this Article 5 shall be the exclusive remedy for breach of the Agreement.
. Indemnification as Exclusive Remedy.
Section 5.07Any proceedings relating to indemnification under Section 5.03 or 5.04 or Clause (b) of shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures set forth in Section 7.03 of the Separation and Distribution Agreement.
. Conduct of Proceedings.
Exhibit B
Section 5.08. . If Recipient at any time believes that Provider is not in full compliance with its obligations under Sections 4.01(a), 4.01(b) or 4.01(c), Recipient shall so notify Provider in writing promptly (but not later than 15 days) after becoming aware of such possible non-compliance by Provider. Such notice (a "") shall set forth in reasonable detail the basis for Recipient's belief as well as Recipient's view as to the steps to
Notice of Certain Matters
Non-Compliance Notice
 
be taken by Provider to address the possible non-compliance. For the 30 days after receipt of such a notice, the members of the Operating Committee (or, if so determined by them, other representatives of Provider and Recipient) shall work in good faith to develop a plan to resolve the matters referred to in the Non-Compliance Notice. In the event such matters are not resolved through such discussions, the matter shall be referred for resolution as contemplated by Section 4.04(b). If such matters are not resolved pursuant to Section 4.04(b) Recipient may elect, by notice delivered within 14 days following completion of the time period contemplated by Section 4.04(b), to terminate Provider's obligation to provide or procure, and its obligation to purchase, the Service or Services referred to in its Non-Compliance Notice in accordance with Section 6.02. In the event such matters are resolved through such discussions or, notwithstanding the failure to resolve such matters Recipient does not elect to terminate such Service or Services within such 14-day period, Recipient shall not be entitled to deliver another Non-Compliance Notice or pursue other remedies with respect to same or any substantially similar matter so long as, in the event of a resolution, Provider complies in all material respects with the terms of such resolution. In no event shall any termination of any Service or Services pursuant to this Section 5.08 limit or affect Recipient's right to seek remedies in respect of any breach by Provider of any of its obligations under this Agreement prior to such termination, subject to the limitations set forth in this Article 5.
Section 6.01. . Except as otherwise provided in this Article 6, in Section 8.05, or in any Schedule or as otherwise agreed in writing by the parties, the term of this Agreement with respect to each Service shall commence as of the Distribution Date or, if later, the date on which such Service is added as a Schedule, and shall cease as of the applicable date set forth in the applicable Schedule or such earlier date as determined in accordance with Section 6.02. This Agreement shall terminate in its entirety upon the expiration of the terms (as determined pursuant to the preceding sentence) of all Services; that the provisions of Articles 5, 6, 7 and 8 shall survive any such termination indefinitely.
Term
provided
Section 6.02. . (a) Except as otherwise provided in any Schedule hereto, Recipient may from time to time terminate this Agreement with respect to one or more of the Services it receives, in whole or in part, upon giving at least 60 days' prior notice to Provider.
Termination
(b) Provider may terminate any Service or any part thereof it provides at any time if (i) a related Service or a third party service pursuant to which Provider provides such Service to Recipient has been terminated or (ii) Recipient shall have failed to perform any of its material obligations under this Agreement relating to
 
any such Service, Provider has notified Recipient in writing of such failure and such failure shall have continued for a period of 60 days after receipt by Recipient of written notice of such failure. For the avoidance of doubt, the failure by Recipient to pay the full amount of any invoice when due shall be considered a breach of Recipient's material obligation under this Agreement. With respect to clause (i) of this Section 6.02(b), if Provider receives written notice from any third party service provider that such Person intends to terminate such service, Provider and Recipient shall use commercially reasonable efforts to secure the continued provision of that service from such third party or an alternative service provider; that any costs incurred in doing so shall be borne by Recipient.
provided
(c) Recipient may terminate any Service it receives as provided in the applicable Schedule or at any time if Provider shall have failed to perform any of its material obligations under this Agreement relating to any such Service, Recipient has notified Provider in writing of such failure, and such failure shall have continued for a period of 30 days after receipt by Provider of written notice of such failure.
(d) At any time following announcement of a transaction involving a Change of Control of Recipient, Provider may elect, by delivery of notice in writing to Recipient, to terminate any or all Services hereunder, such termination to take effect, subject to Section 6.02(a), on the date or dates specified by Provider in such notice; that without the written consent of Recipient, no such termination of Service shall occur prior to the closing of such Change of Control transaction.
provided
(e) Upon completion of the sale or other disposition of any portion of the Recipient Group's business, assets or properties, Provider's obligation to provide any Service in respect of the business, assets or properties so disposed shall terminate automatically and without any notice or other action by Provider, and the aggregate level or volume of such Service required to be provided to the Recipient Group and (if applicable) the Service Costs payable by Recipient in respect thereof shall be reduced appropriately.
(f) Either party may terminate this Agreement at any time with immediate effect upon serving written notice upon the other party if the other party suffers an Insolvency Event.
Section 6.03. . (a) Other than as required by law, upon termination of any Service pursuant to Section 6.02, Provider shall have no further obligation to provide the terminated Service and Recipient shall have no obligation to pay any fees relating to such Services; that notwithstanding such termination, (i) Recipient shall remain liable to Provider for fees owed and payable in respect of Services provided prior to the effective date of the termination, and (ii) Provider shall continue to charge Recipient for administrative
Effect of Termination
provided
 
and program costs relating to benefits paid after but incurred prior to the termination of any Service and other services required to be provided after the termination of such Service and Recipient shall be obligated to pay such expenses in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
(b) Termination of this Agreement as provided for herein shall not prejudice or affect any rights or remedies which shall have accrued or shall thereafter accrue to either party.
(c) Following notice of termination of any Service, Provider and Recipient agree to cooperate in providing for an orderly transition of such Service to Recipient or a successor service provider. Provider agrees to (i) provide promptly, and in any event no later than 60 days following termination of such Service, copies in a usable format then in existence designated by Provider, of all records relating directly or indirectly to benefit determinations of Recipient employees, including but not limited to compensation and service records (to the extent relevant to such Service), correspondence, plan interpretative policies, plan procedures, administrative guidelines, minutes, or any data or records required to be maintained by law and (ii) cooperate reasonably with Recipient in developing a transition schedule. Recipient shall promptly reimburse Provider, upon request, for any and all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by Provider or any of its Subsidiaries arising out of or in connection with the performance of its obligations under this Section 6.03(c). For the avoidance of doubt, this Section 6.03(c) is subject to the provisions of Section 2.03.
Section 7.01. . The parties hereby covenant and agree to maintain confidential all Confidential Information relating to the other party or any of such other party's Subsidiaries. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each party shall cause its employees and agents to exercise the same level of care with respect to Confidential Information relating to the other party or any of its Subsidiaries as it would with respect to proprietary information, materials and processes relating to itself or any of its Subsidiaries. "" shall mean all information, materials and processes relating to a party or any Subsidiary of such party obtained by the other party or any Subsidiary of such other party at any time (whether prior to or after the date hereof) in any format whatsoever (whether orally, visually, in writing, electronically or in any other form) relating to, arising out of or in connection with the Services rendered or to be rendered hereunder and shall include, but not be limited to, economic and business information or data, business plans, computer software and information relating to employees, vendors, customers, products, financial performance and projections, processes, strategies and systems but shall not include (i) information
Confidential Information
Confidential Information
 
which becomes generally available to the public other than by release in violation of the provisions of this Section 7.01, (ii) information which becomes available on a non-confidential basis to a party from a source other than the other party to this Agreement, the party in question reasonably believes that such source is not or was not bound to hold such information confidential and (iii) information acquired or developed independently by a party without violating this Section 7.01 or any other confidentiality agreement with the other party. Except with the prior written consent of the other party, each party will use the other party's Confidential Information only in connection with the performance of its obligations hereunder and each party shall use commercially reasonable efforts to restrict access to the other party's Confidential Information to those employees of such party requiring access for the purpose of providing Services hereunder. Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 7.01 to the contrary, a party may disclose such portion of the Confidential Information relating to the other party to the extent, but only to the extent, the disclosing party reasonably believes that such disclosure is required under law or the rules of a Governmental Authority; that the disclosing party first notifies the other party hereto of such requirement and allows such party a reasonable opportunity to seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy to prevent such disclosure. The parties acknowledge that money damages would not be a sufficient remedy for any breach of the provisions of this Section 7.01 and that the non-breaching party shall be entitled to equitable relief in a court of law in the event of, or to prevent, a breach or threatened breach of this Section 7.01.
provided
provided
Section 7.02(a) Morgan Stanley Systems and any and all enhancements thereof or improvements thereto are and shall remain the sole exclusive property of the Morgan Stanley Entities and their suppliers. From and after the creation of any and all such Morgan Stanley Systems or enhancements thereof or improvements thereto by Discover or by any contractor, Affiliate or other third party on Discover's behalf, in each case, pursuant to this Agreement, Discover agrees to assign and hereby assigns to Morgan Stanley or the applicable Morgan Stanley Entity, any and all right, title and interest that Discover or such contractor, Affiliate or third party may have in such Morgan Stanley Systems or enhancements thereof or improvements thereto.
. Ownership of Assets.
(b) Discover Systems and any and all enhancements thereof or improvements thereto are and shall remain the sole exclusive property of the Discover Entities and their suppliers. From and after the creation of any and all such Discover Systems or enhancements thereof or improvements thereto by Morgan Stanley or by any contractor, Affiliate or third party on Morgan Stanley's behalf, in each case, pursuant to this Agreement, Morgan Stanley agrees to assign and hereby assigns to Discover or the applicable Discover Entity, any and all right, title and interest that Morgan Stanley or such contractor, Affiliate or third party may have in such Discover Systems or enhancements thereof or improvements thereto.
 
(c) From the date hereof until the termination of this Agreement, each party grants to the other and its suppliers a non-exclusive, royalty-free right and license to use the Morgan Stanley Systems or the Discover Systems, as applicable, solely to provide the Services contemplated hereunder. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary hereunder, each party agrees to cooperate with the other (and shall cause its suppliers to so cooperate) to cause the orderly return of the other party's Systems and property upon the termination of this Agreement or upon written request, whichever is earlier.
(d) With respect to any Systems that a Morgan Stanley Entity or a Discover Entity, as applicable, is required to maintain or enhance hereunder, as between Morgan Stanley and Discover, all right, title and interest in and to such enhancements and any related documentation, whether created by the party that provides the Service or any contractor, Affiliate or supplier on such party's behalf, shall be owned exclusively by and vested exclusively in the party by whom the applicable System is owned, licensed or provided.
(e) As between any Morgan Stanley Entity, on the one hand, and any Discover Entity, on the other hand, all right, title and interest in and to all data processed hereunder shall be owned exclusively by the Morgan Stanley Entity or Discover Entity that originally supplied it to the other. Morgan Stanley and Discover hereby assign to the other, and shall cause any of its or their contractors, Affiliates or suppliers to assign to the other, as applicable, all right, title and interest that Morgan Stanley or Discover, as applicable, may have in the other's data.
(f) Each party shall have written agreements with its employees consistent with past practices, and shall cause any contractor, Affiliate or third party performing Services on its behalf pursuant to this Agreement to also have written agreements with its employees that are consistent with its obligations hereunder, including the obligations to disclose and assign all right, title and interest in intellectual property rights as contemplated in Sections 7.01 and 7.02. Each party agrees not to voluntarily terminate or to amend or modify such agreements with respect to the provisions described above without providing at least 30 days prior written notice thereof and further agrees that any such amendments or modifications to such agreements shall be prospective only.
Section 7.03(a) Each member of the Recipient Group and its employees, authorized agents and subcontractors shall only use or access Services and/or any of Provider's Systems, premises or data such Person is authorized by Provider to use or access. In no event shall any member of the Recipient Group and its employees, authorized agents and subcontractors access any Services and/or any of Provider's Systems, premises or data without Provider's prior written consent. Each member of the Recipient Group and its employees, authorized agents and subcontractors shall comply with Provider's policies and procedures in relation to the use and access of the Services and Provider's Systems.
. Security.
 
(b) In connection with the provision of Services hereunder, to the extent either party has access to or acquires Personal Information such party will, and will cause the relevant member of its Group to, comply with, as applicable, Title V of Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Data Protection Laws and any other laws concerning Personal Information. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, both parties agree to comply with the covenants set forth in .
Exhibit B
Section 7.04(a) The provisions of Section 5.01 of the Separation and Distribution Agreement shall apply to matters arising in connection with, or otherwise relating to, the provision of Services hereunder.
. Access To Information.
(b) For the avoidance of doubt, if requested by Recipient, Provider will permit Recipient such access to Provider's books, records, accountants, accountants' work papers, personnel and facilities with respect to the Services as is reasonably necessary to enable the management of Recipient to demonstrate compliance with the requirements set forth in Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, and the rules and regulations of the Securities Exchange Commission promulgated thereunder. In connection with the foregoing, if at any time Recipient shall identify any material deficiencies in the processes utilized by Provider in the provision of Services hereunder, Provider and Recipient will cooperate in good faith to develop and implement commercially reasonable action plans and timetables to remedy such deficiencies and/or implement adequate compensating controls.
Section 7.05(a) All labor matters relating to employees of Provider and its Subsidiaries (including, without limitation, employees involved in the provision of Services to any Recipient Entity) shall be within the exclusive control of Provider, and Recipient shall not take any action affecting such matters. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to transfer the employment of employees engaged in the provision of any Service from one party to the other, whether pursuant to the European Union Acquired Rights Directive, UK Transfer Regulations or otherwise. All employees and representatives of a party and any of its Affiliates will be deemed for all compensation, employee benefits, tax and social security contribution purposes to be employees or representatives of such party or its Affiliates (or their subcontractors) and not employees or representatives of the other party or any of its Affiliates (or their subcontractors). In providing the Services, such employees and representatives will be under the direction, control and supervision of Provider or its Affiliates (or their subcontractors) and not of Recipient.
. Labor Matters.
(b) Recipient shall notify Provider within seven days of any employee or former employee of the Provider Group claiming or asserting that the
 
termination of the provision of all or any of the Services constitutes the transfer of an undertaking or part thereof, or a service provision change, within the meaning of the UK Transfer Regulations, such that their contract of employment transfers or will transfer from Provider to Recipient.
(c) Provider shall within 14 days of being so informed by Recipient, at its sole discretion be entitled to offer employment to the employee on terms and conditions which are in all material respects (except as to occupational pension arrangements) not less favorable than those which he or she enjoyed immediately before the date of the termination or intended termination, such offer to remain open for acceptance for 14 days.
(d) In the event that the offer referred to in Section 7.05(c) above is not made or such an offer is made and not accepted by the employee within 14 days, (i) Recipient shall be entitled to terminate such employee's provision of all or any of the Services and therefore dismiss such employee and (ii) Provider shall indemnify Recipient in respect of the following:
(A) any costs, liabilities and expenses that Recipient incurs as a result of a claim or threatened claim by such employee (or part of such claim) that relates to facts or events occurring prior to the alleged transfer date in relation to his/her employment with Provider;
(B) any costs, liabilities and expenses that Recipient incurs as a result of a claim or threatened claim that Provider or Recipient failed to comply with their obligations under Regulation 13 of the UK Transfer Regulations in respect of such employee;
(C) Recipient's reasonable legal costs incurred in dealing with such termination;
(D) any notice pay payable to such employee; and
(E) any severance payment made to such employee, up to a maximum of three weeks' salary per year of service.
(e) In the event that a claim within the scope of Section 7.05(b) is made or alleged, Recipient and Provider shall give to each other such assistance as may reasonably be required by the other in relation to the claim. Where any such claim is one in respect of which the indemnity in Section 7.05 (d) applies, Provider shall be entitled to have the conduct of the claim, at its own expense.
(f) The provisions of Sections 7.05(b) to 7.05(e) shall not apply to claims brought or asserted by any of: Mandhir Mandair, Maurice Varcoe, Adam Greenbaum, Suniti Dhupelia, Anna Satchell, Jaini Gudhka and Cheng Fang Liang.
 
Section 8.01. In the event there is any conflict between the provisions of this Agreement, on the one hand, and provisions of prior services agreements among any Provider Entity and any Recipient Entity (the ""), on the other hand, the provisions of this Agreement shall govern.
. Prior Agreements
Prior Agreements
Section 8.02. . In the event there is any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement, on the one hand, and the provisions of the Separation and Distribution Agreement, on the other hand, the provisions of the Separation and Distribution Agreement shall govern.
Other Agreements
Section 8.03. . Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute or be deemed to constitute a partnership or joint venture between the parties hereto or constitute or be deemed to constitute any party the agent or employee of the other party for any purpose whatsoever and neither party shall have authority or power to bind the other or to contract in the name of, or create a liability against, the other in any way or for any purpose. The parties hereto acknowledge and agree that Provider is an independent contractor in the performance of each and every part of this Agreement and nothing herein shall be construed to be inconsistent with this status. Provider shall have the authority to select the means, methods and manner by which any Service is performed.
No Agency; Independent Contractor Status
Section 8.04. . (a) Provider may hire or engage one or more subcontractors to perform all or any of its obligations under this Agreement; that, subject to Section 5.02, Provider shall in all cases remain primarily responsible for ensuring that obligations with respect to the standards of services set forth in this Agreement are satisfied with respect to any Service provided by a subcontractor hired or engaged by Provider.
Subcontractors
provided
(b) If Recipient terminates any Service prior to its scheduled expiration and as a result of such termination any Provider Indemnified Person suffers or incurs any liability or damages arising out of or in connection with any third party contract pursuant to which Recipient had received the relevant Service, such Provider Indemnified Person shall be entitled to indemnification in accordance with Section 5.03.
Section 8.05. . (a) For purposes of this Section 8.05, "" means an event beyond the reasonable control of either party, which by its nature could not have been foreseen by such party, or, if it could have been foreseen, was unavoidable, and includes without limitation, acts of God, storms, floods, riots, fires, sabotage, civil commotion or civil unrest, interference by civil or military authorities, threat, declaration, continuation, escalation or acts of war (declared or undeclared) or acts of terrorism, failure or shortage of energy sources,
Force Majeure
force majeure
 
raw materials or components, strike, walkout, lockout or other labor trouble or shortage, delays by unaffiliated suppliers or carriers, and acts, omissions or delays in acting by any Governmental Authority or the other party.
(b) Without limiting the generality of Section 5.02(a), neither party shall be under any liability for failure to fulfill any obligation under this Agreement, so long as and to the extent to which the fulfillment of such obligation is prevented, frustrated, hindered, or delayed as a consequence of circumstances of force majeure; that such party shall have used commercially reasonable efforts to minimize to the extent practicable the effect of force majeure on its obligations hereunder; that nothing in this Section 8.05 shall be construed to require the settlement of any strike, walkout, lockout or other labor dispute on terms which, in the reasonable judgment of the affected party, are contrary to its interests. It is understood that the settlement of a strike, walkout, lockout or other labor dispute will be entirely within the discretion of the affected party. The party affected by the force majeure event shall notify the other party of that fact as soon as practicable.
provided
provided further
Section 8.06. . This Agreement (including the Schedules constituting a part of this Agreement) and any other writing signed by the parties that specifically references this Agreement constitute the entire agreement among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersede all prior agreements, understandings and negotiations, both written and oral, between the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement is not intended to confer upon any Person other than the parties hereto, their Affiliates and their respective successors and permitted assigns any rights or remedies hereunder.
Entire Agreement
Section 8.07. . Subject to Applicable Law and privileges, each party hereto covenants and agrees to provide the other party with all information regarding itself and transactions under this Agreement that the other party reasonably believes are required to comply with all applicable federal, state, county and local laws, ordinances, regulations and codes, including, but not limited to, securities laws and regulations.
Information
Section 8.08. . Any notice, instruction, direction or demand under the terms of this Agreement required to be in writing shall be duly given upon delivery, if delivered by hand, facsimile transmission, or mail, to the following addresses:
Notices
 
Morgan Stanley
1585 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
Attn: Martin M. Cohen, Director of Company Law
Facsimile: (212) 507-3334
 
with a copy to:
Davis Polk & Wardwell
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Attn: Paul Kingsley, Esq./Jeffrey Small, Esq.
Facsimile: (212) 450-3277/(212) 450-3500
 
Discover Financial Services
2500 Lake Cook Road
Riverwoods, IL 60015
Attn: General Counsel - Contracts
Facsimile: (224) 405-4584
or to such other addresses or telecopy numbers as may be specified by like notice to the other parties. All such notices, requests and other communications shall be deemed given, (a) when delivered in person or by courier or a courier services, (b) if sent by facsimile transmission (receipt confirmed) on a Business Day prior to 5 p.m. in the place of receipt, on the date of transmission (or, if sent at or after 5 p.m. at the place of receipt, on the following Business Day) or (c) if mailed by certified mail (return receipt requested), on the date specified on the return receipt.
Section 8.09. . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York, without regard to the conflicts of laws rules thereof.
Governing Law
Section 8.10Any Action seeking to enforce any provision of, or based on any matter arising out of or in connection with, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby shall be brought in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York or any other New York State court sitting in New York County, and each of the parties hereby consents to the jurisdiction of such courts (and of the appropriate appellate courts therefrom) in any such suit, action or proceeding and irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of the venue of any such suit, action or proceeding in any such court or that any such suit, action or proceeding which is brought in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum. Process in any such suit, action or proceeding may be served on any party anywhere in the world, whether within or without the jurisdiction of any such court. Without limiting the foregoing, each party agrees that service of process on such party as provided in Section 8.08 shall be deemed effective service of process on such party.
. Jurisdiction.
 
Section 8.11. . THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVE ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATED TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL
Section 8.12. . If any provision of this Agreement or any part thereof shall be invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not render the entire Agreement invalid. Rather, the Agreement shall be construed as if not containing the particular invalid or unenforceable provision, and the rights and obligations of each party shall be construed and enforced accordingly.
Severability
Section 8.13. . (a) Any provision of this Agreement (including the Schedules hereto) may be amended or waived if, but only if, such amendment or waiver is in writing and is signed, in the case of an amendment, by each party to this Agreement, or in the case of a waiver, by the party against whom the waiver is to be effective.
Amendments and Waivers
(b) No failure or delay by any party in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege. The rights and remedies herein provided shall be cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies provided by law.
Section 8.14. . The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and permitted assigns; that no party may assign, delegate or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of the other party hereto.
Successors and Assigns
provided
Section 8.15. . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which, when taken together, shall constitute one agreement.
Counterparts
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
A. Morgan Stanley to Discover
Morgan Stanley will provide to Discover certain services in each of the areas listed below. Morgan Stanley will provide each of these services for specified terms not exceeding 18 months, except as otherwise indicated.
 
 
 
B. Discover to Morgan Stanley
Discover will provide to Morgan Stanley certain services in each of the areas listed below. Morgan Stanley will provide these service for terms not exceeding 12 months, except as otherwise indicated.
 
 
Discover agrees to furnish supplementally to the Securities and Exchange Commission a copy of the schedules to this agreement upon the request of the Securities and Exchange Commission in accordance with Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K.
 

Exhibit 10.4
Agreement by and between Morgan Stanley & Co. International PLC, a United Kingdom corporation with offices at 25 Cabot Square, Canary Wharf, London E14 4QA, United Kingdom ("Licensor") and Goldfish Bank Limited, a United Kingdom corporation with offices at 2 Hertsmere House, Canary Wharf, London, E14 4AB, United Kingdom ("Licensee") made this 30th day of June, 2007 (the "Licence") (collectively, the "parties", individually, a "party").
1. . The following terms shall have the following definitions when used in this Licence:
DEFINITIONS
1.1 "" shall mean (i) the direct or indirect acquisition (by merger, consolidation, business combination or otherwise) by any Person or group of Persons of beneficial ownership (as defined in Rule 13d-1 and Rule 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 50% or more of the Total Voting Power of Licensee, (ii) any merger, consolidation or other business combination of Licensee or an affiliate of Licensee with any Person after giving effect to which (x) the shareholders of Licensee immediately prior to such transaction do not own at least 50% of the Total Voting Power of the ultimate parent entity of the parties to such transaction or (y) individuals who were directors of Licensee immediately prior to such transaction (or their designees) do not constitute a majority of the board of directors of such ultimate parent entity, and (iii) the direct or indirect acquisition by any Person or group of Persons of all or substantially all of the assets of Licensee.
Change of Control
1.2 "" shall mean the date written hereinabove.
Effective Date
1.3 "" shall mean that agreement between Licensor and Morgan Stanley which authorizes Licensor to sublicense the Mark.
Parent Licence Agreement
1.4 "" shall mean the marks MORGAN STANLEY and MORGAN STANLEY and Design, and the registrations therefor in the European Union and the United Kingdom, as shown on Exhibit 1 to this Licence and the Domain Names.
Mark
1.5 "" shall mean any third party to whom Licensee has previously granted the right to use the Mark solely in connection with the Services and any third party to whom Licensee grants the right to use the Mark during the Term solely in connection with the Services.
Marketing Partner
1.6 "" shall mean means individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, trust or other entity or organization, including a governmental or political subdivision or an agency or instrumentality thereof.
Person
1.7 "" shall mean any company which is wholly owned, either directly or indirectly, by Morgan Stanley (with respect to Licensor Related Companies) or Discover Financial Services (with respect to Licensee Related Companies), at the time of this Licence and only so long as it remains wholly owned, either directly or indirectly, by either Morgan Stanley or Discover Financial Services, as applicable. For the avoidance of doubt, the companies listed in Exhibit 2 shall be Licensee's Related Companies at the time of this Licence.
Related Company
1.8 "" shall mean services relating to Licensee's, or Related Companies', credit card business and such services as are related and ancillary thereto including the offering of reward programmes, loans and insurance products.
Services
1.9 "" shall mean substantially the same standards of quality, service and other standards that have been observed as of the Effective Date by Licensee and/or Related Companies and/or Marketing Partners in the development, marketing, advertising, performance and sale of any Services offered under the Mark in the Territory.
Standards of Quality
 
1.10 "" shall mean the United Kingdom and the Internet (solely for purposes of promoting the Services to residents of the United Kingdom and providing the Services to existing customers).
Territory
1.11 "" shall mean, with respect to any Person, the total combined voting power of all securities of such Person entitled to vote generally in the election of directors of such Person.
Total Voting Power
2. Subject to the terms and condition of this Licence and pursuant to the Parent Licence Agreement:
GRANT.
2.1 Licensor hereby grants to Licensee a limited, non-transferable, royalty-free Licence to use the Mark in the Territory in connection with the Services as described in this Licence, including in connection with the advertising and promotion of the Services ("Advertising"), with the right to sublicense such right, but only to Related Companies and/or Marketing Partners (collectively, "Sublicensees") in connection with the Services, provided that Licensee shall procure that such Sublicensees are likewise subject to all the terms and conditions of this Licence. Licensee shall cause its Sublicensees to comply with all the terms and conditions of the Licence and shall be responsible to Licensor for ensuring compliance by the Sublicensees with the terms and conditions of this Licence.
2.2 During the Term, Licensee and its Related Companies, but not its Marketing Partners, may use the Mark as part of their corporate names, trading names and/or assumed names.
 
2.3 During the Term, Licensee and its Sublicensees may use the domain names listed in Exhibit 3 hereto ("Domain Names") in connection with the Services offered under the Mark. In particular, but without limitation to the foregoing, the Licensee and its Related Companies shall be entitled to exercise the technical and administration rights in relation to the Domain Names and to create URLs within the Domain Names. Licensor shall make such Domain Names available to Licensee for its exclusive use (for the first two (2) years of the Term, unless this Licence is terminated earlier), or shared use with other Licensor Related Companies, as set forth in Exhibit 3. Licensor shall ensure that the Domain Names are managed as part of the domain name portfolio management services provided by VeriSign Inc. and shall provided three nominated users of the Licensee with online review-only access to the Domain Names in such VeriSign account.
2.3.1 For those Domain Names listed in Exhibit 3 as exclusive to Licensee, Licensee shall insert a prominently placed (e.g., "above the fold") icon or other reference to Licensor (or its Related Companies) as reasonably requested by Licensor that links a user to a Licensor (or Related Company) website. The parties shall reasonably agree on the size, content and manner of any such reference.
2.3.2 For those Domain Names listed in Exhibit 3 as shared between the parties, and for those domains in Section 2.3.1 during the last year of the Term, the parties shall reasonably agree to the layout and content of such webpages associated with these Domains Names in a manner that directs the user to select a further Licensee or Licensor (or Related Company) website.
 
2.3.3 Licensee agrees that as marketing and promotional material inventories are replenished during the Term, Licensee shall make commercially reasonable efforts to replace reference to any Domain Names with a domain name not containing or incorporating the Marks.
2.4 During the Term, the Licensee and its Sublicensees may use the phrase "Formerly known as the Morgan Stanley Credit Card" or such other similar phrase as has been approved in writing by Licensor, in its advertising, promotion and performance of the Services under the New Mark, provided that any such phrases shall not be used on the credit or debit cards directly.
2.5 During the Term, in relation to search keyterms regarding the Services that include the Mark or such other similar terms as has been approved in writing by Licensor, Licensee may procure such keyterms on google.co.uk and other search engines where the searcher is from a United Kingdom IP address
.
2.6 Notwithstanding any rights granted herein, Licensee and its Sublicensee shall make commercially reasonable efforts to minimize the use of the mark "Morgan Stanley Dean Witter" and shall have no right to use such mark on any advertising or promotional materials.
2.7 Any and all rights not granted to Licensee are specifically reserved by Licensor.
2.8 Subject to clauses 2.6 and 2.7, Licensee and its Sublicensees shall only use the Mark in connection with any products and services offered or provided in relation to the Services, immediately prior to the Effective Date, by Licensee and/or its Sublicensees in the Territory ("Existing Products").
2.9 If Licensee desires to use (or desires that a Sublicensee may use) the Mark in conjunction with any products and services which are (i) not Existing Products; and (ii) not covered by clause 2.7:
2.9.1 it shall make such request to Licensor in writing;
 
2.9.2 Licensor shall, in its reasonable discretion, determine whether it will allow such use, and shall notify Licensee of such decision in writing within a reasonable time; and
2.9.3 if Licensor decides to allow such use, the parties shall negotiate a separate, royalty-bearing licence which shall also require that Licensee pay reasonable expenses for any additional trade mark or service mark registrations required if the Mark is not registered for use in the appropriate class of goods or services relating to such product or service.
2.10 During the Term, Licensee and its Sublicensees shall be entitled to offer and provide new products and/or services in the Territory under the Mark only to existing customers of Licensee and its Sublicensees who hold a credit card bearing the Mark in connection with loans and insurance products and associated services including travel services.
2.11 For the avoidance of doubt and notwithstanding any other provision of this Licence, the Licensee shall determine the specification, features, pricing and other terms and conditions of any and all Services in its sole discretion, provided that (i) any specifications, features, pricing or other terms and conditions of the Services does not bring Licensor or its affiliates into disrepute, and (ii) Licensee shall use its best endeavours to ensure that any marketing material containing the Mark is accurate and not false or misleading or deceptive or contain any statements which are derogatory or defamatory of any person or likely to bring the Licensor and its affiliates into disrepute.
3. TERM AND TERMINATION.
3.1 The purpose of this Licence is to allow for the smooth transition of the business of the Services conducted under the Mark in the Territory to a new trade mark (the "New Mark"). Therefore, the term of this Licence shall be for a maximum of three (3) years from the
 
date of this Licence (the ), provided however, that Licensee uses reasonable commercial endeavours to select, develop and begin using the New Mark, as soon as practical, which New Mark shall not contain either the term "Morgan" or "Stanley" or any similar terms. Licensee shall inform Licensor in writing each calendar quarter of the then-current number of outstanding credit cards bearing the Mark under the Licence hereunder and shall provide a copy of its plan to migrate from the Mark to the New Mark to the Licensor.
"Term"
3.2 With regard to a sublicense to a Related Company, such sublicense shall immediately terminate without notice if such company ceases to be a Related Company. With regard to a sublicense to a Marketing Partner, such sublicense shall immediately terminate without notice if such company ceases to be a Marketing Partner.
3.3 At any time following announcement of a transaction involving a Change of Control of Licensee, Licensor may elect, by delivery of notice in writing to Licensee, to terminate the Licence, such termination to take effect on the date specified in the notice; without the written consent of Licensee, no such termination shall occur prior to thirty (30) days' after the closing of such Change of Control transaction.
provided that
3.4 Licensor may terminate the Licence at any time with immediate effect upon serving written notice upon the Licensee if the Licensee suffers an Insolvency Event. For purposes of this Licence, "Insolvency Event" shall mean (i) the making by Licensee of any assignment for the benefit of creditors of all or substantially all of its assets or the admission by Licensee in writing of its inability to pay all or substantially all of its debts as they become due; (ii) the adjudication of Licensee as bankrupt or insolvent or the filing by Licensee of a petition or application to any tribunal for the appointment of a trustee or receiver for Licensee or any substantial part of the assets of Licensee; or (iii) the commencement of any voluntary or
 
involuntary bankruptcy proceedings (and, with respect to involuntary bankruptcy proceedings, the failure to be discharged within sixty (60) days), reorganization proceedings or similar proceeding with respect to Licensee or the entry of an order appointing a trustee or receiver or approving a petition in any such proceeding.
3.5 Licensor may elect, by delivery of notice in writing to Licensee, to terminate the Licence, such termination to take effect on the date specified in the notice, if Licensee shall have failed to perform any of its material obligations under this Licence, Licensor has notified Licensee in writing of such failure and such failure shall have continued for a period of sixty (60) days after receipt by Licensee of written notice of such failure.
3.6 Upon termination of this Licence by Licensor, Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) cease any and all use of the Mark and the Domain Names.
4. QUALITY CONTROL.
4.1 All use of the Mark by Licensee and the Sublicensees shall be in compliance with the Standards of Quality. Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) not use nor permit the Mark and Domain Names to be used in any manner which, as a direct result of such use of the Mark, is likely to (i) subject Licensor to unfavorable regulatory action; (ii) violate any law; (iii) violate the rights of any person or entity (other than rights directly relating to the Mark); or (iv) subject Licensor to liability for any reason (other than as directly relating to the Mark). Any and all uses of the Mark and Domain Names shall be in accordance with all applicable national, European Union, local or other laws and regulations.
4.2 In order to promote adherence to the Standards of Quality and for the purpose of protecting and maintaining the goodwill associated with the Mark and the reputation of the Licensor, Licensor shall have the right to:
4.2.1 Obtain from Licensee reasonable information as to the nature and quality of the Services and the Advertising and the manner in which the Mark is used in connection with the Services and the Advertising.
 
4.2.2 Itself or through an authorised representative, at any reasonable time or times during regular business hours on reasonable advanced written notice, visit the offices and facilities of Licensee where the Services are developed, designed, marketed, promoted, sold, serviced or rendered (i) up to two (2) times per calendar year; and (ii) additionally, if Licensor notifies Licensee in writing that it believes that the Services are not conforming to the Standards of Quality or other requirements of this Licence, which notice shall provide a description of the nonconformity that is reasonable under the circumstances and, if appropriate and available to Licensor, include copies of any documentation relating to such nonconformity. Licensee shall use all reasonable endeavours to procure that its Sublicensees shall also provide such access to Licensor on the terms set out in this clause 4.2.2. Licensor may conduct a reasonable inspection and examination of such offices and facilities in order to satisfy itself that the Services are conforming to the Standards of Quality and the other requirements of this Licence provided that Licensor or its authorised representative shall comply with all codes of conduct and similar policies notified to Licensor by Licensee at all times while visiting the offices and facilities of Licensee and its Sublicensees.
4.2.3 In conducting any such inspection or examination, Licensor shall take all steps reasonably required by Licensee or its Sublicensees to minimize disruption to Licensee's or Sublicensees' business and to avoid disclosure of any confidential and proprietary information and materials, including, but not limited to, executing nondisclosure agreements, provided that such steps and agreements shall not prevent Licensor from pursuing any claims that it may have in connection with this Licence.
 
4.2.4 Licensee agrees to furnish Licensor, from time to time as reasonably requested by Licensor but in any event no more than quarterly, representative samples of credit cards, invoices, advertising and promotional materials to which the Mark is affixed and representative samples showing other uses of the Mark, as well as any other particular uses of the Mark reasonably requested by Licensor.
4.3 If at any time the Services rendered or its Advertising fail, in the reasonable judgment of Licensor, to conform to the Standard of Quality in any material respect, Licensor shall notify Licensee of such failure in writing (which notice shall provide a description of the nonconformity that is reasonable under the circumstances and, if appropriate and available to Licensor, include samples of any nonconforming Advertising and copies of any documentation relating to such nonconformity). Licensee shall take all necessary steps to bring the Services and Advertising into conformity within thirty (30) days (or such other time period mutually agreed upon by the parties) after Licensee's receipt of written notice of the nonconformity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event Licensor and Licensee do not agree as to (i) whether a nonconformity exists, (ii) a remedy for the nonconformity, or (iii) the date by which the nonconformity will be corrected, the parties shall engage senior management of each party's parent company to resolve such dispute.
5. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
5.1 Licensee acknowledges that Licensor is the owner of the Mark, any marks which contain the Mark and the Domain Names. It is understood and agreed that nothing in this agreement will be deemed in any way to constitute an assignment by Licensor of the Mark
 
and the Domain Names or of any rights therein, or to give Licensee or its Sublicensees any right, title or interest in and to the Mark or the Domain Names (except the right to make use thereof as provided for in this Licence).
5.2 Licensor shall maintain registrations for the Mark in the United Kingdom and CTM during the Term which protect the right of the Licensee to use the Mark as set out in this Licence.
5.3 Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) not register or apply to register in any trade mark office in any jurisdiction the Mark or any mark which contains the Mark. Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) also not register any domain name which contains the Mark or which is confusingly similar to the Mark in any gTLD or ccTLD. If Licensee or such Sublicensee registers or applies to register any such marks or domain names, Licensee shall (or Licensee shall procure that Sublicensee shall) assign such registration or application or domain name to Licensor.
5.4 Licensee shall (and Licensee shall procure that any Related Company which uses the Mark as part of its corporate, trading or assumed name shall) change such corporate, trading and/or assumed name prior to the end of the Term or earlier if the Licence is terminated hereunder.
5.5 Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) cooperate with Licensor with regard to the prosecution and maintenance of any applications, registration and registered user agreements with regard to the Mark and similar activities in relation to the application and registration of the Mark, including the supplying of specimens of use and executing any documents requested by Licensor for such purposes.
 
5.6 Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) promptly notify Licensor of any infringement of the Mark in relation to the Services or any matter which Licensee reasonably believes does or is likely to adversely affect the goodwill of the Mark in relation to the Services and which comes to the attention of Licensee, provided that failure to so notify (other than due to wilful default) shall not constitute a breach of this Licence.
5.7 Subject to clause 5.8, Licensor shall retain all rights to bring all actions and proceedings in connection with infringement or misuse of the Mark at its sole discretion, provided that should Licensor not take action and proceedings against any person whom Licensee believes is committing an infringement or misuse of the Mark in relation to the Services, Licensee may escalate such decision to senior management at Licensor and Licensee for resolution.
5.8 Licensee shall be entitled to require Licensor to take action and proceedings against any person whom Licensee believes is committing an infringement of the Marks in a domain name solely through a UDRP arbitration proceeding or similar proceeding, in which event all costs so incurred (including without limitation any costs associated with Licensor's involvement in such action) and recoveries made shall be for the account of Licensee.
5.9 Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) fully cooperate with Licensor in any action in relation to the Services which Licensor may take against an infringer of the Mark in the Territory or in any Domain Name dispute.
5.10 All costs incurred and recoveries made in relation to all actions and proceedings in connection with infringement or misuse of the Mark and the Domain Names shall, to such extent:
5.10.1 be for the account of Licensee if the actions and proceedings directly relate to a domain name,
 
5.10.2 be for the account of Licensee if the actions and proceedings directly relate to the Services and Licensor has not granted a licence of the Mark to any third party,
5.10.3 be apportioned between Licensee and the relevant third party according to an agreed upon basis of apportionment if the actions and proceedings directly relate to the Services and Licensor has granted a licence to any third party for use of the Mark in relation to the Services, and
5.10.4 be for the account of Licensor if the actions and proceedings are outside the scope of the Services.
5.11 Licensor shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Licensee and Sublicensees and their directors, officers, employees and agents from any third party claim, demand, or action for infringement of a third party trade mark arising out of or in connection with Licensor's rights to the Mark and all costs, losses, damages, expenses (including legal expenses) and liabilities arising therefrom provided Licensee's use (and, if applicable, the use by the affected Sublicensee) of the Mark is in compliance with this Licence.
5.12 Subject to clause 5.11, Licensee shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Licensor and its affiliates and their directors, officers, employees and agents from any third party claim, demand or action in relation to its use, and the use by any of its Sublicensees, of the Mark in connection with the Services.
 
6. USE OF MARK
6.1 Licensee shall (and shall procure that its Sublicensees shall) comply with the standards and guidelines with respect to the appearance and manner of use of the Mark set out in Exhibit 4.
7. MISCELLANEOUS
7.1 . This Licence shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of England, without regard to its choice of law principles. The parties hereby irrevocably consent to the exclusive jurisdiction of, and venue in, any court of competent jurisdiction located in England for the purposes of adjudicating any matter arising from or in connection with this Licence.
Governing Law
7.2 . Each party acknowledges that a breach of its obligations under this Agreement may, as determined by a court of competent jurisdiction, result in irreparable and continuing damage to the other party for which monetary damages would not be sufficient, and agrees that the other party will be entitled to seek, in addition to its other rights and remedies hereunder or at law, injunctive and/or other equitable relief, and such further relief as may be proper from a court of competent jurisdiction.
Relief
7.3 . This Licence shall not be assigned or transferred in whole or in part by Licensee without the prior written consent of Licensor, and any attempted assignment or transfer without such consent shall be null and void. Except as otherwise provided herein with respect to successors, this Licence is for the sole benefit of the parties to this Licence and their permitted successors and assigns and nothing in this Licence, express or implied, is intended to nor shall confer upon any other person or entity any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature whatsoever under or by reason of this Licence.
Assignment
 
7.4 . The parties agree to implement this Licence by executing or causing to be executed such additional and subsidiary agreements and other documents, and taking such other actions, as may be necessary or desirable fully to protect the Mark and effectively to carry out the terms of this Licence in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Cooperation
7.5 . All notices, requests, claims, demands and other communications under this Licence shall be in writing and shall be given or made (and shall be deemed to have been duly given or made upon receipt) by delivery in person, by overnight courier service, or by registered or certified mail (postage prepaid, return receipt requested) to the respective parties at the following address (or at such other address for a party as shall be specified in a notice given in accordance with this subparagraph):
Notices
LICENSOR:
Morgan Stanley & Co. International PLC
25 Cabot Square
Canary Wharf
London E14 4QA
United Kingdom
Attn: General Counsel
With a copy to:
Morgan Stanley
1585 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
Attn: General Counsel
LICENSEE:
Goldfish Bank Limited
2 Hertsmere House
Canary Wharf
London E14 4AB
United Kingdom
Attn: General Counsel
 
With a copy to:
Discover Financial Services
2500 Lake Cook Road
Riverwood, IL 60015
Attn: General Counsel
7.6 . If any term or other provision of this Licence is held to be invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced under any law or regulation, all other conditions and provisions of this Licence shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect. Upon such determination that any term or other provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Licence so as to effect the original intent of the parties as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated by this Licence be consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.
Severability
7.7 . This Licence constitutes the entire agreement between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Licence and supersedes all prior agreements and undertakings, both written and oral, between or on behalf of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Licence.
Entire Agreement
7.8 . No provision of this Licence may be amended or modified except by a written instrument signed by an authorised representative of each party. Failure by either party at any time to enforce or require strict compliance with any provision of this Licence shall not affect nor impair that provision in any way or the rights of that party to avail itself of the remedies it may have in respect of any subsequent breach of that or any other provision. The waiver of any term, condition or provision of this Licence must be in writing
Amendment and Waiver
 
and signed by an authorised representative of the waiving party. Any such waiver will not be construed as a waiver of any other term, condition or provision, nor as a waiver of any subsequent breach of the same term, condition or provision, except as provided in a signed writing.
7.9 . Interpretation of this Licence shall be governed by the following rules of construction: (i) words in the singular shall be held to include the plural and vice versa and words of one gender shall be held to include the other gender as the context requires, (ii) references to a paragraph are references to the paragraph to this Licence unless otherwise specified, (iii) the word "including" and words of similar import shall mean "including, without limitation," (iv) provisions shall apply, when appropriate, to successive events and transactions, (v) this Licence shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring construction or interpretation against the party drafting or causing any instrument to be drafted.
Rules of Construction
7.10 . All headings used in this Licence are for convenience of reference only. They will not limit or extend the meaning of any provision of this Licence and will not be relevant in interpreting any term or provision of this Licence.
Headings
7.11 . Any provision of this Licence which, by its nature, would survive termination or expiration of this Licence will survive any such termination or expiration of this Licence.
Survival
7.12 . Any party which is not a party to this Licence shall not be entitled to any benefit from or to enforce any benefit under this Licence under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999.
Third Party Rights
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Licensor and Licence have caused this instrument to be executed in duplicate by their duly authorised representatives as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Discover Financial Services Debuts on New York Stock Exchange under Ticker Symbol "DFS"
Former Morgan Stanley Unit Begins Trading as Independent Company
RIVERWOODS, Ill.(BUSINESS WIRE)July 2, 2007Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS), a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company, today begins trading on the New York Stock Exchange as an independent company.
"Today begins an exciting new chapter in Discover's proud history," said David Nelms, Chief Executive Officer of Discover. "With one of the strongest brands in financial services and a differentiated strategy, Discover is well positioned to deliver long-term value to shareholders, cardholders, financial institutions and our merchant partners."
Discover is one of the largest credit card issuers in the world and operates leading credit and debit payments networks. A leader in cash rewards and customer service, Discover is the only company to have created a successful new credit card network in more than 40 years. The company, which operates the Discover Card, with more than 50 million cardmembers, and the Discover and Pulse Networks, with millions of merchants and more than 4,400 financial institutions, reported more than $5 billion in revenues and more than $50 billion in managed receivables in fiscal 2006.
Discover is now an independent company as a result of its spin-off from Morgan Stanley, which was completed on June 30. Morgan Stanley shareholders received one share of Discover common stock for every two shares of common stock they held in Morgan Stanley. Those Discover shares will officially begin trading under the ticker symbol "DFS" today.
Clear Strategy to Deliver Shareholder Value
"Discover has a clear strategy to leverage its unique strengths and integrated business model to continue growing its card issuing business and realize the substantial opportunities in the fast-growing payments business," Nelms said. "The spin-off puts us in an even better position to execute on that strategy. We now have a highly qualified board of directors complementing a strong existing management team, as well as an enhanced ability to capitalize on opportunities in the rapidly changing marketplace."
Nelms has been leading Discover's business since 1998 and will sit on the company's Board of Directors. Roger Hochschild will continue in his current role as President and Chief Operating Officer, and Roy Guthrie will continue to serve as Chief Financial Officer.
Dennis D. Dammerman, who retired as Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Officer of General Electric Company and Director, Chairman and CEO of GE Capital Services, will serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors. Discover's Board also includes the following outside directors: Jeffrey S. Aronin, President and CEO of Ovation Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; Mary K. Bush, former U.S. Government representative on the IMF Board and former head of International Finance at Fannie Mae; Gregory C. Case, President and CEO of Aon Corporation; Robert M. Devlin, former Chairman, President and CEO of American General; Philip A. Laskawy, former Chairman and CEO of Ernst & Young LLP; Michael Rankowitz, senior advisor to Morgan
Stanley; E. Follin Smith, EVP, CFO and CAO for Constellation Energy Group; and Lawrence A. Weinbach, former Chairman and CEO of Unisys Corporation and former Managing Partner and Chief Executive of Andersen Worldwide. David H. Komansky, Chairman Emeritus of Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc., will join the Board later in the year.
About Discover Financial Services
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) operates the Discover Card with more than 50 million cardmembers, the Discover Network with millions of merchant and cash access locations, and the Goldfish credit card business in the United Kingdom. Discover Financial Services also operates the PULSE ATM/debit network, which serves more than 4,400 financial institutions and includes nearly 260,000 ATMs, as well as POS terminals, nationwide. For more information, visit .
www.discoverfinancial.com
CONTACT: Discover Financial Services
Jon Drummond, 224/405-1888
SOURCE: Discover Financial Services


