FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20080226153656.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 21, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Discover Financial Services (the "Company") established the parameters of the Company's bonus program for executive officers under the Company's Omnibus Incentive Plan for 2008 (the "Plan"). The Committee established an incentive pool of 5% of the Company's fiscal 2008 after-tax net income from continuing operations. The Committee allocated a percentage of the pool to each executive officer in the Plan.
After 2008 after-tax net income is determined, the Committee will approve actual bonuses. The Company's executive officers do not have target bonus amounts. However, the 2008 bonus amounts will be determined by using the prior year's bonus as a reference point and then adjusting that amount based on reviewing the Company's 2008 performance with respect to net income, return on equity, earnings per share and progress towards the Company's 2008 strategic objectives. In no event can an officer's bonus exceed such officer's allocated percentage of the incentive pool.
The allocated percentage of the incentive pool is: 21% for David W. Nelms, Chief Executive Officer; 18% for Roger C. Hochschild, President and Chief Operating Officer; and 9% for each of Roy A. Guthrie, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Diane E. Offereins, Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and PULSE Network and Carlos Minetti, Executive Vice President, Cardmember Services and Consumer Banking.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


