FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20080207165744.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2008, Discover Financial Services (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, Goldfish Bank Limited ("GBL"), a private limited liability company incorporated in England and Wales, Discover Bank ("DB"), a Delaware chartered bank, and SCFC Receivables Corporation ("SRC"), a Delaware corporation, each of GBL, DB and SRC being wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, and Barclays Bank Plc ("Barclays") entered into a definitive sale and purchase agreement (the "Sale Agreement") relating to the sale of the Company's U.K. credit card business (the "Goldfish Business") to Barclays. A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the execution of the Sale Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The aggregate sale price for the Shares and Assets (each defined below) under the Sale Agreement is 35 million (equivalent to approximately $70 million), payable in cash at closing and subject to a post-closing adjustment set forth in the Sale Agreement. Under the Sale Agreement, intercompany funding with respect to the Goldfish Business will be settled at closing. Cash and capital will become available for general corporate purposes as a result of the divestiture. The closing is expected to occur by the end of the Company's second quarter.
Under the terms of the Sale Agreement, each of DB, SRC, GBL and the Company agreed to sell the entire outstanding capital stock of Goldfish Credit Servicing Inc. Goldfish Procurement Inc. Goldfish Credit Enhancing Inc. and Goldfish Card Services Limited respectively (the "Shares") and GBL agreed to sell or transfer certain assets of GBL, including cardholder agreements, credit card accounts, receivables, certain contracts of GBL and intellectual property owned by GBL (the "Assets").
The Sale Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and covenants found in similar transactions of this size and nature. The closing of the sale and purchase of the Shares and Assets is subject to the satisfaction of a number of conditions, including competition clearance from the United Kingdom Office of Fair Trading, a minimum value of receivables to be transferred and consents under certain material contracts.
The foregoing summary description of the terms of the Sale Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the Sale Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 2.1, and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On December 20, 2007, the Company released certain unaudited financial information with respect to its fiscal quarter ended November 30, 2007. After further review by management, the Company has adjusted certain deferred tax benefits associated with the Company's Goldfish Business. The adjustment resulted in a $27.6 million decrease in the previously reported net loss for the quarter and an equivalent increase in net income for the year ended November 30, 2007. Revised net income (loss) for the quarter and full year ended November 30, 2007 is ($56.5) million and $588.6 million, respectively. The adjustment increased previously reported earnings per share by $0.06 for the quarter and full year ended November 30, 2007, to ($0.12) and $1.23, respectively.
The information furnished under Item 2.02 of this Report shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing.
 
On February 7, 2008, the Company entered into the Sale Agreement to sell its Goldfish Business to Barclays as described in Item 1.01. The Company's Goldfish Business represents substantially all of its International Card segment. As a result of the plan of sale, the International Card segment will be presented as discontinued operations beginning with first quarter 2008 reporting. Based
on the terms of the sale, the Company expects to record charges of approximately $240 to $270 million pre-tax ($190 to $210 million after tax) in the first quarter 2008 associated with classifying the segment as held for sale, substantially all of which will be non-cash. These charges, the majority of which are expected to be recognized in the first quarter of 2008, include approximately $5 million related to the termination of certain contractual arrangements and approximately $7 million of employee-related costs. This will be partially offset by the proceeds from the sale of other assets related to the U.K. business of approximately $45 million.
 
See Item 2.05 regarding the impairment charge associated with the Goldfish Business.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
 
 
AGREED FORM DOCUMENTS
Transitional Services Agreement
Novation Agreement
Securitisation Agreements
Certificate of Title
Insurance Novation Agreement
MAC Certificate
Directors Letters of Resignation
 
(this "") is made on 7 February, 2008
THIS AGREEMENT
Agreement
BETWEEN:
 
 
 
 
 
(together, the "").
parties
RECITAL:
The Sellers own the Shares and GBL owns and operates the GBL Business. The Sellers and GBL have agreed, respectively, to transfer the Shares and to transfer the GBL Business as a going concern to the Buyer and the Buyer has agreed to purchase the Shares and the GBL Business on and subject to the terms of this Agreement.
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
Words and expressions used in this Agreement and its recitals shall, unless otherwise defined in this Agreement, have the meaning set out in . This Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the rules of interpretation set out in .
Part I of Schedule 1
Part II of Schedule 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other than, for the avoidance of doubt, the Excluded Assets and save as referred in , the beneficial interest in the Securitised Assets.
Clause 2.1(a)(v)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
such aggregate sum being the "".
Purchase Price
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Between the date of this Agreement and Completion, each party shall promptly notify the other parties upon becoming aware that a Material Adverse Change has, or is reasonably likely to have, occurred. During a Cure Period, the Sellers shall provide the Buyer with such information as the Buyer reasonably requires in respect of such Material Adverse Change and the steps being taken to cure the Material Adverse Change. If the Buyer elects to complete the sale and purchase of the Shares and the GBL Business this shall be without prejudice of the right of the Buyer to bring a Claim against the Sellers including in respect of the event, circumstances or state of affairs giving rise to the Material Adverse Change.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Barclays Bank Plc shall act as agent for service for any Substituted Buyer under this . In case the Buyer nominates a Substituted Buyer, references to "a party" or "the parties" or to "the Buyer" in this Agreement shall from the date of this Agreement be deemed to include references to the Substituted Buyer.
Clause 5.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and none of the parties shall take any position inconsistent with the treatment described in (a), (b), or (c).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and DFS shall only be liable in respect of any breach of such Warranty on this basis. For the avoidance of doubt, but without prejudice to the Buyer's right to rely on the extent of DFS's knowledge set out in the previous sentence, no representation, warranty or undertaking is hereby made or implied that the people identified in have actually made such due or careful enquiry.
Schedule 14
 
 
 
in each case of the relevant people identified in as having knowledge of such Warranty.
Schedule 14
 
 
 
 
 
As regards information that is not included in the Data Room, the Disclosure Letter or this Agreement, the Actual Knowledge of the Buyer of such information will only limit the Liability of the Sellers in respect of a Warranty Claim if and to the extent:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided, that, if any such payment would reduce the Purchase Price in respect of any such Asset or Shares to less than 1 the price of those particular Shares or Asset shall be reduced to 1 and, to the extent permitted by law:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case, giving reasonable details of such Claim including, to the extent known and practicable, an estimate (on a without prejudice basis) of the amount or potential amount of the Liability of DFS in respect thereof.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
if that party knew or ought reasonably to have known that such voluntary act, omission, transaction or arrangement could reasonably be expected to give rise to, or increase, any such Liability, except that this shall not apply to any voluntary act, omission, transaction or arrangement carried out by the Buyer or any Target Company after Completion in order to comply with or rectify any pre-Completion breach of (i) Applicable Law, (ii) a Cardholder Agreement or (iii) any other obligation of a Target Company or the GBL Business; provided, further, that, this shall not limit any Liability of DFS in respect of as a result of any step listed in (i), (ii) or (iii) of being any taken by or on behalf of the Buyer or, with respect to the period after Completion, any Target Company.
Clause 8.18
Clause 8.18
Clause 9.14
Clause 9.15
For the purposes of this , the Sellers shall be treated as a single party.
Clause 8.18
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nothing in this or any Transaction Document shall operate to transfer any of the Excluded Assets or the Excluded Liabilities to the Buyer.
Clause 9.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each case, to enable due performance and to provide for the Buyer the benefits of the Contract (including without limitation the payment of money as soon as reasonably practicable after receipt).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Nothing in this clause shall preclude entering into agreements with relevant eligible Employees to vary any terms as set out in the Severance Policy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
but save to the extent that any such Liabilities directly result from, or are increased by, any acts or omissions of the Buyer, including the Buyer's breach of , or , or in respect of a particular Residential Lease, an offer of employment is made by a member of the Buyer Group to the relevant employee in occupation and accepted by such employee.
Clause 13.2
Clause 13.5
Clause 13.6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In each case the Indemnified Party shall be required to provide such updates and information on the conduct and progress of the third party claim as the Indemnifying Party shall reasonably request and shall settle such third party claim at the written direction, costs and expense of the Indemnifying Party.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Buyer agrees to use its reasonable endeavours to preserve the confidentiality of the Copy Records.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that the Sellers are hereby authorised by the Buyer on its own behalf and on behalf of any relevant Buyer Group Company to make reference to any trade name or brand which forms part of the Goldfish Intellectual Property post-Completion as necessary to assert their rights or defend any proceedings or as required by Applicable Law.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this , transactions undertaken by different members of the Sellers Group shall be aggregated and treated as undertaken by a single member.
Clause 16.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided, however, that nothing in this Agreement shall restrict:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provided however that as regards the first 1,500,000 of any Claim relating to GCSL only one half thereof shall be subject to increase in respect of Tax under this .
Clause 19.2(b)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any stamp duty or other stamp, documentary, registration or transfer taxes (including interest and penalties) payable in respect of the purchase of the Shares or the Assets shall be borne by the Buyer.
 
In the period before Completion the Sellers and DFS shall use reasonable endeavours to assist the Buyer, including through the provision of information available to the Sellers or DFS, in determining whether after Completion U.S. withholding taxes may be incurred in connection with the Cumbernauld Securitisation and, if such taxes may be incurred in determining appropriate strategies to reduce or minimise the exposure thereto.
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement, the Transaction Documents and the other documents referred to in this Agreement as being in the agreed form constitute the entire and only legally binding agreement between the parties relating to the sale and purchase of the Shares and the GBL Business and supersede and extinguish any prior drafts, agreements, undertakings, representations, warranties and arrangements of any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating to such matters. Neither party will have any liability for any representation, warranty or undertaking not expressly set out in this Agreement, provided that nothing in this Agreement will exclude either party from liability for any dishonest or fraudulent misrepresentation, act or omission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a party defaults in the payment when due of any sum payable under this Agreement, including for the avoidance of doubt any sum payable pursuant to the Tax Covenant, (whether determined by agreement or pursuant to an order of a court or otherwise), the liability of such party shall be increased to include interest on such sum from the date when such payment is due until the date of actual payment (after as well as before judgment) at the Interest Rate. Such interest shall accrue from day to day, shall be compounded annually and shall be payable on demand by the party to which the payment is due.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for any purpose whatsoever and neither party will have the authority or power to bind the other party or to contract in the name of or create a liability against the other party in any way.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of which this Agreement has been duly executed by each of the parties on the date first above written.
IN WITNESS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this Agreement, unless otherwise specified:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
During the period commencing on the date of this Agreement and ending at Completion, the parties shall comply with their respective obligations set out in this Schedule 3.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provided, that nothing in this paragraph 5.2.8 shall obligate any Seller or any Target Company to provide the Buyer access to the Systems or the similar Systems of any Seller Group Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Management Accounts have been:
 
 
as at and for the period for which they respectively are stated, having regard in all circumstances to the purposes for which they were prepared and the parties agree that the fairness of any provisions or forward looking statements shall only be considered by reference to the information available to the Sellers at the date of preparation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and for this purpose "contract" includes any understanding, arrangement or commitment however described.
 
 
 
 
None of the Target Companies has given any power of attorney or other written authority which is still outstanding or effective to any person to enter into any contract or commitment on its behalf (other than to its directors, officers and employees to enter into routine contracts in the normal course of their duties).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the purposes of this Warranty, Seller Group shall include a Target Company.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UK Registered Trade Marks
 
 
Target Companies Domain Names
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community Registered Trade Marks
 
 
Benelux Registered Trade Marks
 
 
 
South Korea Registered Trade Marks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
within a period of 15 days after receipt by the Buyer of the Objection Notice. If agreement is reached, the Completion Statements shall be amended by the Buyer (within 5 days of agreement or such other period as the Buyer and the Sellers shall agree) to reflect the adjustments (if any) that have been agreed and the Sellers shall issue a Satisfaction Notice (within 5 days of receiving the amended Completion Statements) and these statements shall constitute the Completion Statements for the purposes of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Sellers and the Buyer shall each be responsible for their own costs in connection with the preparation, review and agreement or determination of the Completion Statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
P O P
RELIMINARY
AND
VERALL
RINCIPLES
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S A T
PECIFIC
CCOUNTING
REATMENTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
((a) to (e) together, the "").
Completion Adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" means a payment made by a person to whom a compensating adjustment is available to a person who has suffered the transfer pricing adjustment to which the compensating adjustment relates;
balancing payment
"" means any Relief arising to a Target Company to the extent that it was included as an asset or taken into account in calculating any deferred tax provision in the Final Completion Statements;
Buyer's Relief
"" means any claim, notice, demand, assessment, return, accounts, charge, or other document issued, or action taken or omission made, by or on behalf of a Tax Authority, from which it appears that or as a result of which a claim for breach of a Tax Warranty may be made or a Target Company is or may be placed or sought to be placed under a Tax Liability, being a Tax Liability which could give rise to a liability for the Sellers under this Schedule (whether along or in conjunction with other Claims);
Claim for Taxation
"" means the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended;
Code
"" means any Relief available to a person as a consequence of a transfer pricing adjustment made in respect of another person;
compensating adjustment
"" means any Relief arising to a Target Company to the extent that it arises in respect of any Transaction occurring or period commencing after Completion;
Post Completion Relief
"" means any relief, exemption, allowance, loss, deduction, credit or set off in each case available in respect of any Tax or relevant to the computation of any Tax Liability and shall include without limitation a right to repayment of Tax (including any repayment supplement or interest in respect of such repayment);
Relief
"" means a Tax Return of a Target Company for the accounting period current at Completion;
Straddle Period Return
"" means any statute, statutory instrument, enactment, law, by-law, directive, decree, ordinance, regulation or legislative provision enacted, issued or adopted providing for, imposing or relating to Tax;
Tax Legislation
"" means:
Tax Liability
 
 
and in the case of the use or set off of a Buyer's Relief or a Post Completion Relief the amount of the Tax Liability shall be a sum equal to the amount of the actual liability to Tax which would have arisen but for such use or set off; provided that for these purposes it shall be assumed that a Relief other than a Buyer's Relief or a Post Completion Relief will, where possible, be used in priority to Buyer's Relief or a Post Completion Relief;
"" means the Tax Sharing Agreement and the Supplemental Tax Sharing Agreement relating to Tax in the United Kingdom entered into between DFS and Morgan Stanley on 30 June 2007;
Tax Sharing Agreements
"" means any person other than a Target Company or a party to this Agreement;
Third Party
"" means any, actual transaction or transaction deemed for Tax purposes, deed, act, event, payment, distribution, and the entry into this Agreement and/or Completion; and
Transaction
"" means the computation of profits or losses for Tax purposes in relation to any transaction or series of transactions on a basis which substitutes arm's length terms for the actual terms agreed.
transfer pricing adjustment
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the Sellers or DFS shall take account of the reasonable comments of the Buyer provided that any such comments are provided by the Buyer to the Sellers or DFS on a timely basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
and the Buyer shall take account of the reasonable comments of the Sellers or DFS provided that any such comments are provided by the Sellers or DFS to the Buyer on a timely basis.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
they each shall take, and shall procure that there are taken, such steps (including claims, elections, consents, the provision of information or otherwise) as the other party may reasonably request to claim the benefit of the compensating adjustment, and shall keep the other party fully informed of the progress of such steps (including providing it with copies of all relevant correspondence and documentations).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) and Barclays Bank PLC announced today that the companies have signed a definitive agreement for Barclays to acquire Discover's Goldfish credit card business based in the United Kingdom.
Riverwoods, IL and London, Feb. 7, 2008 
Under the agreement, Barclays will acquire the card portfolio consisting of 1.7 million Goldfish and affinity card accounts with approximately $4 billion (2 billion) of receivables; the Goldfish brand; its operating facilities; certain legal entities; and staff.
The aggregate sale price of the business is approximately $70 million (35 million), payable in cash at closing and subject to a post-closing adjustment. Discover expects it will record after-tax charges of between $190 million and $210 million in the first quarter associated with the transaction. The company believes that exiting the U.K. card business will positively impact earnings in the second quarter of 2008 and for the remainder of the year. Cash and capital will become available for general corporate purposes as a result of the divestiture.
"While we have begun to see important progress in our U.K. business, the funding and operating environment there continues to be a challenge. We have concluded that the best way to maximize shareholder value is through the sale of the Goldfish business," said David Nelms, chief executive officer of Discover. "The sale will free up capital, enhance Discover's net income and bring even sharper focus to our profitable and growing U.S. Card and Third-Party Payments businesses."
Antony Jenkins, chief executive of Barclaycard, said: "Barclaycard is one of the largest card issuers in the U.K. with acknowledged expertise in risk management, customer data management and marketing. Goldfish has similar credit characteristics to our existing U.K. business. The combination provides an attractive opportunity to deploy our expertise across a larger number of cards and customers."
The transaction is expected to close by the end of Discover's second quarter, subject to regulatory approvals in the U.K. and to other closing conditions.
Additional information regarding the transaction will be available in a Form 8-K that will be filed by Discover with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
About Discover Financial Services
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. The company operates the Discover Card, America's cash rewards pioneer. Since its inception in1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. Its payments businesses consist of the Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations, and PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
 
About Barclays
Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management and investment management services with an extensive international presence in Europe, the USA, Africa and Asia. With over 300 years of history and expertise in banking, Barclays operates in over 50 countries and employs over 127,000 people. Barclays moves, lends, invests and protects money for over 27 million customers and clients worldwide. For further information about Barclays, please visit http://www.barclays.com.
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover Financial Services' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates; changes in economic variables, such as the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. or U.K. debt and securitization markets; the ability to increase or sustain Discover Card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of our separation from Morgan Stanley; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from indebtedness incurred during our separation from Morgan Stanley.
These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available. Additional factors that could cause Discover Financial Services' results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found in the Company's Form 10, as amended, filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
Contacts
 
 


