FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20080402172502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Discover Financial Services (the "Company") completed the sale of its U.K. credit card business ("Goldfish Business") to Barclays Bank Plc ("Barclays") on March 31, 2008. The shares and assets related to the Goldfish Business sold by the Company to Barclays included (i) the entire outstanding capital stock of Goldfish Credit Servicing Inc., Goldfish Procurement Inc., Goldfish Credit Enhancing Inc., and Goldfish Card Services Limited and (ii) certain assets of Goldfish Bank Limited ("GBL"), including cardholder agreements, credit card accounts, receivables, certain contracts of GBL and intellectual property owned by GBL. These shares and assets had a total net asset value of approximately 129 million (equivalent to approximately $258 million). The aggregate purchase price received by the Company from Barclays was 35 million (equivalent to approximately $70 million), which was paid in cash and is subject to a post-closing adjustment.
 
 
The pro forma financial information specified in Article 11 of Regulation S-X is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined financial information has been prepared to reflect the March 31, 2008 sale by Discover Financial Services (the "Company") to Barclays Bank PLC of the Company's U.K. credit card business (the "Goldfish Business"), which represented substantially all of the Company's International Card segment. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined financial statements presented below have been derived from the Company's audited consolidated and combined financial statements for the year ended November 30, 2007. The pro forma adjustments and notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined financial statements give effect to the sale of the Goldfish Business. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined financial statements should be read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and the audited consolidated and combined financial statements and the notes to those statements included in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007.
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined statements of income for the years ended November 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005 have been prepared as though the sale of the Goldfish Business occurred on December 1, 2004. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated statement of financial condition has been prepared as though the sale of the Goldfish Business occurred on November 30, 2007. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions that management believes are reasonable, that reflect the expected impacts of events that are directly attributable to the sale of the Goldfish Business, and that are factually supportable and expected to have a continuing impact on us. Such adjustments are estimates and may not prove to be accurate.
The pro forma adjustments include the following items:
 
 
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated and combined financial statements are provided for illustrative and informational purposes only and do not reflect what our consolidated and combined financial condition and results of operations would have been had the sale of Goldfish Business occurred at the beginning of all periods presented and are not necessarily indicative of our future financial condition and future results of operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated and Combined Financial Statements
 
 


