FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20090706162607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the Company under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 6, 2009, Discover Financial Services ("") issued a press release announcing a proposed $500 million public offering of its common stock and, subject to market conditions, an offering of senior notes in the near future. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Discover
Assuming the completion of the proposed $500 million equity offering and after giving effect to (1) the actions Discover has taken or has announced an intention to take in order to maintain the credit ratings of the trusts through which Discover accesses the securitization market and (2) the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 166, , and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167, using historic costs for asset/liability consolidation (fair value election is being reviewed), Discover's estimated Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio as of May 31, 2009 would have been 11.8%.
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets-an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R)
pro forma
In addition, Discover also reaffirms its guidance of an expected range of between 8.5% to 9.0% for its managed net charge-off rate for its fiscal third quarter of 2009.
The information contained in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates and under sale accounting treatment; changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. equity, debt and deposit markets; the ability to manage our liquidity risk; losses in our investment portfolio; the ability to increase or sustain Discover Card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; our ability to successfully achieve interoperability among our networks and maintain relationships with network participants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and
future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws limiting or modifying certain credit card practices and legislation related to government programs to stabilize the financial markets; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; resolution of our dispute with Morgan Stanley; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from financing transactions.
Additional factors that could cause Discover's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2008 and under "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarterly periods ended February 28, 2009, and May 31, 2009, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES ANNOUNCES PUBLIC OFFERING OF COMMON STOCK
Discover Financial Services (NYSE:DFS) today announced it has commenced an underwritten public offering of $500 million of its common stock. The net proceeds from the offering will be used for general corporate purposes, which may include capital contributions to the company's subsidiary, Discover Bank, possible investments in the company's businesses, or possible repurchase of fixed rate cumulative perpetual preferred stock issued by Discover to the U.S. Treasury under its Capital Purchase Program (subject to regulatory approval). The Company will grant the underwriters a 30-day option to purchase up to an additional 15 percent of the number of shares offered to cover over-allotments, if any. In addition, the Company intends to offer senior notes in the near future, subject to market conditions.
RIVERWOODS, Ill., July 6, 2009 -
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. is acting as sole book-running manager for both the common stock and proposed senior notes offerings. A copy of the prospectus supplement and prospectus relating to these securities may be obtained, when available, by contacting J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., Attn: Prospectus Department, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, CS Level, Brooklyn, NY 11245 or by calling 1-718-242-8002.
This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or jurisdiction.
About Discover Financial Services
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the Discover Card, America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers student and personal loans, as well as savings products such as certificates of deposit and money market accounts. Its payments businesses consist of the Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in 185 countries and territories.
Contacts:
Investors:
Craig Streem, 224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
Media:
Leslie Sutton, 224-405-3965
lesliesutton@discover.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover Financial Services' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates and under sale accounting treatment; changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. equity, debt and deposit markets; the ability to manage our liquidity risk; losses in our investment portfolio; the ability to increase or sustain Discover Card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; our ability to successfully achieve interoperability among our networks and maintain relationships with network participants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws limiting or modifying certain credit card practices and legislation related to government programs to stabilize the financial markets; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; resolution of our dispute with Morgan Stanley; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from financing transactions.
Additional factors that could cause Discover Financial Services' results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under "Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2008 and under "Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors" in the Company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 28, 2009, and May 31, 2009, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).


