FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20090917083046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Current Report
 
 
 
DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES
 
Commission File Number: 001-33378
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On September 17, 2009, Discover Financial Services (the Company) released financial information with respect to the quarter ended August 31, 2009. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of the Company's Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended August 31, 2009 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
- Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today reported net income for the quarter ended Aug. 31, 2009 of $577 million, up $397 million from the third quarter of 2008, and diluted EPS of $1.07, up $0.70 from the third quarter of 2008. Net income for the third quarter of 2009 includes approximately $287 million (after-tax) related to the Visa/MasterCard antitrust litigation settlement.
Riverwoods, IL, Sept. 17, 2009
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"I am very pleased with Discover's results this quarter, which were characterized by solid revenue growth, better than expected credit performance, continued reduction of expenses and our re-entry into the capital markets, said David Nelms, Discovers chairman and chief executive officer. "While maintaining a very cautious view of credit due to the mixed signals in the US economy, we continue to invest for future growth as we build our brand and global payments networks."
 
 
1
 All references herein to financial information presented on a managed basis assume that loans that have been securitized were not sold and presents financial information regarding these loans in a manner similar to the presentation of financial information regarding loans that have not been sold. Management believes it is useful for investors to consider the credit performance of the entire managed loan portfolio to understand the quality of loan originations and the related credit risks inherent in the owned portfolio and retained interests in securitization.  For more information, and a detailed reconciliation, see the schedule titled Reconciliation of GAAP to Managed Data attached to this press release.
 
 
1
 
 
Segment Results (Managed Basis):
 
U.S. Card
 
Pretax income was $913 million in the third quarter of 2009 as compared to $245 million for the third quarter of 2008.
 
Managed loans ended the quarter at $51 billion, up 1% compared to the prior year, as lower cardmember payments and growth in both student and personal loans were largely offset by lower balance transfer activity and sales volume.  Sales volume declined 7% compared to the prior year, reflecting lower gas prices and a general decline in consumer spending, but increased 6% from the prior quarter, primarily as a result of seasonal growth. Balance transfer volume declined 84% and 76% from the prior year and prior quarter, respectively, as the company further reduced its marketing of promotional rate balance transfer offers.
 
Net yield on loan receivables rose to 9.90%, an increase of 95 basis points from the prior year and 64 basis points from the prior quarter.  The increases reflect the impact of higher interest rates on standard balances and a substantial reduction in promotional rate balances. The increase over the prior year is partially offset by higher interest charge-offs.  In addition, the second quarter of 2009 included a $16 million charge related to an industry-wide FDIC special assessment which had the effect of reducing second quarter net yield by 12 basis points.
 
The managed net charge-off rate increased to 8.39% for the third quarter of 2009, up 319 basis points and 60 basis points from the prior year and the prior quarter, respectively, as consumer bankruptcies and unemployment continued to rise.  The over 30 days delinquency rate on managed loans was 5.10%, up 125 basis points from the prior year primarily due to the economic downturn, and up 2 basis points from the second quarter of 2009.  The managed net charge-off rate for the fourth quarter of 2009 is expected to be between 8.5% and 9%.
 
Provision for loan losses increased $170 million, or 23%, from the prior year due to higher net charge-offs.  The allowance for loan losses increased $873 million from the prior year, but decreased $154 million from the prior quarter.  The increase from the prior year reflects a reserve addition related to a 278 basis point increase in the reserve rate and a $3 billion increase in on-balance sheet loans due to maturing securitizations.  The decrease from the prior quarter reflects a $2 billion decline in the level of on-balance sheet loans in the quarter as a result of securitization activities.
 
Other income increased $573 million from the prior year, including $472 million related to the Visa/MasterCard antitrust litigation settlement and a $69 million favorable revaluation of the interest-only strip receivable compared to a $34 million unfavorable revaluation in the prior year.
 
Expenses decreased $96 million, or 16%, from the prior year, reflecting reduced marketing, lower headcount and the impact of other cost containment initiatives.
 
 
2
 
 
Third-Party Payments
 
The Third-Party Payments segment transaction volume of $36 billion was up 2% from the prior year, as the inclusion of a full quarter of Diners Club International volume was partially offset by lower sales volume from third-party issuers and a 1% decrease in PULSE volumes.  The third quarter 2008 transaction volume included two months of volume related to Diners Club International, which was acquired on June 30, 2008.
 
Pretax income of $27 million was down $1 million from the prior year. Segment expenses include a higher level of international marketing investments, partially offset by the impact of cost containment initiatives. In addition, segment revenues and expenses were impacted by the inclusion of a full quarter of Diners Club International results.
 
Capital Markets Activity
 
During the quarter, the company raised approximately $534 million through a common stock offering and issued debt of $400 million.  The company's securitization trust issued $1.5 billion of asset-backed securities through the TALF program and the company completed a number of actions to adjust the credit enhancement structure of the securitization trusts.
 
Dividends
 
The companys board declared a cash dividend of $0.02 per share of common stock, payable on Oct. 22, 2009, to stockholders of record at the close of business on Oct. 1, 2009.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
The company will host a conference call to discuss its third quarter results on Thursday, Sept. 17, 2009, at 10 a.m. Central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com.
 
About Discover
 
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the Discover card, America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers student and personal loans, as well as savings products such as certificates of deposit and money market accounts. Its payments businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
 
 
3
 
 
Contacts:
 
Investors:
Craig Streem, 224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
 
Media:
Jon Drummond, 224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com
 
A financial summary follows. Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the Financial Supplement. Both the earnings release and the Financial Supplement are available online at http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com.
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of Discover Financial Services' management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.  The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; our ability to manage credit risks and securitize our receivables at acceptable rates and under sale accounting treatment; changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to U.S. equity, debt and deposit markets; the ability to manage our liquidity risk; losses in our investment portfolio; the ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new cardmembers and introduce new products or services; our ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; our ability to successfully achieve interoperability among our networks and maintain relationships with network participants; material security breaches of key systems; unforeseen and catastrophic events; our reputation; the potential effects of technological changes; the effect of political, economic and market conditions and geopolitical events; unanticipated developments relating to lawsuits, investigations or similar matters; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws and rules limiting or modifying certain credit card practices and legislation related to government programs to stabilize the financial markets; our ability to attract and retain employees; the ability to protect our intellectual property; the impact of any potential future acquisitions; investor sentiment; resolution of our dispute with Morgan Stanley; and the restrictions on our operations resulting from financing transactions.
 
Additional factors that could cause Discover Financial Services' results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under Part I. Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2008 and under Part II. Item 1A. Risk Factors in the Companys Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 28, 2009 and May 31, 2009, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pages present a reconciliation for certain information disclosed in the financial data supplement.
 
The data is presented on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("owned" loan basis). Managed
loan data assume that the company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and presents the results of securitized loan receivables in the same
manner as the company's owned loans. The company operates its business and analyzes its financial performance on a managed basis. Accordingly,
underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans. The company believes that managed loan information is
useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and
allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and retained interests in securitizations. Managed loan data is also
relevant because the company services the securitized and owned loans, and the related accounts, in the same manner without regard to ownership of the
loans. In addition, investors often request information on a managed basis which provides a more meaningful comparison to industry competitors.
 
Tangible common equity ("TCE"), a non-GAAP financial measure, represents common equity less goodwill and intangibles.  A reconcilation of TCE
to common equity, a GAAP financial measure, is shown on the pages that follow.  Other financial services companies may also use TCE and definitions may vary,
so we advise users of this information to exercise caution in comparing TCE of different companies.  TCE, TCE as a percentage of tangible managed assets, TCE as a
percentage of net managed loans and TCE per share are included because management believes that common equity excluding goodwill and intangibles is a more meaningful
valuation to investors of the true net asset value of the company.
 
Reserve rate (excluding guaranteed student loans), a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans excluding guaranteed
student loans. A reconciliation of total loans, a GAAP financial measure, to loans excluding the guaranteed portion of student loans is shown on the pages that follow.
A portion of the Company's student loans are 97% guaranteed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. These guaranteed student loans
carry little default risk and therefore, are reserved at a significantly lower rate than the remaining portfolio. Management believes that a reserve rate excluding the government guaranteed
portion of student loans is a more meaningful valuation to investors of the portion of the portfolio that has a risk of loss.
 
 
10
 
 
 
11

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following pages present a reconciliation for certain information disclosed in the financial data supplement.
 
The data is presented on both a "managed" loan basis and as reported under generally accepted accounting principles ("owned" loan basis). Managed
loan data assume that the company's securitized loan receivables have not been sold and presents the results of securitized loan receivables in the same
manner as the company's owned loans. The company operates its business and analyzes its financial performance on a managed basis. Accordingly,
underwriting and servicing standards are comparable for both owned and securitized loans. The company believes that managed loan information is
useful to investors because it provides information regarding the quality of loan origination and credit performance of the entire managed portfolio and
allows investors to understand the related credit risks inherent in owned loans and retained interests in securitizations. Managed loan data is also
relevant because the company services the securitized and owned loans, and the related accounts, in the same manner without regard to ownership of the
loans. In addition, investors often request information on a managed basis which provides a more meaningful comparison to industry competitors.
 
Tangible common equity ("TCE"), a non-GAAP financial measure, represents common equity less goodwill and intangibles.  A reconcilation of TCE
to common equity, a GAAP financial measure, is shown on the pages that follow.  Other financial services companies may also use TCE and definitions may vary,
so we advise users of this information to exercise caution in comparing TCE of different companies.  TCE, TCE as a percentage of tangible managed assets, TCE as a
percentage of net managed loans and TCE per share are included because management believes that common equity excluding goodwill and intangibles is a more meaningful
valuation to investors of the true net asset value of the company.
 
Reserve rate (excluding guaranteed student loans), a non-GAAP financial measure, represents the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of total loans excluding guaranteed
student loans. A reconciliation of total loans, a GAAP financial measure, to loans excluding the guaranteed portion of student loans is shown on the pages that follow.
A portion of the Company's student loans are 97% guaranteed by the federal government under the Federal Family Education Loan Program. These guaranteed student loans
carry little default risk and therefore, are reserved at a significantly lower rate than the remaining portfolio. Management believes that a reserve rate excluding the government guaranteed
portion of student loans is a more meaningful valuation to investors of the portion of the portfolio that has a risk of loss.
 
 
 
 
 
 


