FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20090720085737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]   Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 5.02.    Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
(c) On July 20, 2009, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had unanimously elected Mark Zaeske, age 42, as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, effective July 27, 2009. Prior to Mr. Zaeske's appointment, Roy Guthrie, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, acted as principal accounting officer. In connection with Mr. Zaeske's election as Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer, he will be entitled to an annual salary of $500,000 and will be eligible to receive an annual performance-based award under the Company's Amended and Restated 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan. In order to compensate Mr. Zaeske for certain equity and other awards and benefits which he was required to forfeit upon leaving his prior employer, Mr. Zaeske will receive (i) a grant of 200,000 Company Restricted Stock Units which will vest, subject to certain forfeiture conditions, in three equal annual installments on each January 2 of each year following the grant dat e and (ii) subject to certain forfeiture conditions, a cash award of $315,000 payable within thirty days of his employment start date. Unless otherwise provided in the restricted stock unit agreement, the restricted stock units may become fully vested before the end of the regular restriction period due to death, disability, retirement, workforce reduction or a change in control of the Company.
Prior to joining Discover, Mr. Zaeske was employed by JPMorgan Chase & Company where he worked for approximately six years in a variety of positions, including as chief financial officer of JPMorgan's Worldwide Securities Services, CFO of the Treasury Services, and CFO of the Commercial Banking Divisions. Most recently, Mr. Zaeske was the Western Hemisphere Regional Executive, Treasury, Liquidity and Investment Products at JPMorgan. Mr. Zaeske has no family relationships with any director or executive officer of the Company. Since December 1, 2007, there have been no transactions, or proposed transactions, to which the Company was or is a party, in which Mr. Zaeske had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest.
 
 
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
            
Exhibit No.       Description
99.1               Press Release of Discover Financial Services dated July 20, 2009
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Discover Financial Services today announced that Mark A. Zaeske has been named senior vice president, finance, and chief accounting officer. Zaeske will oversee Discover's accounting, external reporting, management reporting, corporate tax, and corporate procurement and payment services. He will report directly to Roy A. Guthrie, chief financial officer for Discover.
Riverwoods, IL, July 20, 2009 -
"Mark's deep background in banking and financial services will be a great asset to Discover," Guthrie said. "We look forward to the contributions he will undoubtedly make as we continue to manage the business conservatively while building for the future."
"I am very excited about the opportunity to join Discover," Zaeske said. "I've been impressed by the company's ability to manage through this challenging economic environment. With its strong capital and liquidity position and ever-expanding domestic and international acceptance, I am excited about the future and look forward to being a part of the management team."
Before joining Discover, Zaeske was with JPMorgan Chase since 2003, where he served in a variety of positions, including as chief financial officer of the company's Worldwide Securities Services Division, CFO of the Treasury Services Division, and CFO of the Commercial Banking Division. Most recently, Zaeske was the Western Hemisphere regional executive, Treasury, Liquidity and Investment Products at JPMorgan.
Prior to his employment with JPMorgan, Zaeske was treasurer of AIG retirement savings from 2000 to 2003, and worked as an associate director and later, assistant treasurer, for Citigroup from 1996 to 2000. He has a bachelor's degree from the University of Texas and an MBA from the University of Chicago.
Zaeske will begin his new role at Discover on July 27, 2009.
About Discover Financial Services
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a leading credit card issuer and electronic payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the Discover Card, America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers student and personal loans, as well as savings products such as certificates of deposit and money market accounts. Its payments businesses consist of the Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
Contact:
Jon Drummond
Discover Financial Services
224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com


