FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20101019083038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reflecting on-going improvements in the credit performance of its loan portfolio, Discover Financial Services anticipates, as of October 19, 2010, that its total loan portfolio net charge-off rate for the fourth quarter 2010 will be in a range of 6.50% to 7.00%, which takes into account the effect of the sale to the U.S. Department of Education of approximately $1.5 billion of loans originated under the Federal Family Education Loan Program, completed on September 23, 2010. The previously-reported net charge-off rate for the total loan portfolio in the third quarter 2010 was 7.18%.
 
 
The information contained in this Item 7.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of our management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment; our ability to manage our credit risk; and the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events. Additional factors that could cause our results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2009 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 28, 2010, May 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010, which are filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the Securities and Exchange Commission's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


