FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20100917091734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 17, 2010, Discover Financial Services announced that its wholly-owned subsidiary Discover Bank ("Discover") and The Student Loan Corporation ("SLC") entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), pursuant to which Discover will acquire SLC through the merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discover with and into SLC, with SLC surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discover. The transaction is expected to close by the end of the calendar year, subject to closing conditions. At such time, the outstanding shares of SLC's common stock will be converted into the right to receive $30 in cash, without interest (the "Merger Consideration"). SLC is 80% owned by Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank") and 20% owned by public stockholders. The press release containing this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Concurrently with the entry into the Merger Agreement, SLC also entered into agreements with respect to two related asset sale transactions, one with SLM Corporation ("Sallie Mae") pursuant to which SLC agreed to sell $28 billion of its Federal Family Education Loan Program ("FFELP") student loans, constituting the majority of SLC's FFELP portfolio, and another with Citibank, pursuant to which SLC agreed to sell $9 billion of its private student loans and other assets. These transactions are expected to occur just prior to the effectiveness of the merger. After consummation of these two transactions, SLC will hold only the private student loan assets and related liabilities described below.
In the transaction, Discover will effectively be acquiring: (i) the beneficial interests in securitization trusts formed for the purpose of holding the private student loans associated with public securitization transactions issued out of the SLC Private Student Loan Trust 2006-A, and private securitization transactions issued out of the SLC Private Student Loan Trusts 2010-A and 2010-B (collectively, the "Loans"), which Loans had an estimated book value at June 30, 2010 of approximately $4.2 billion, (ii) the cash reserves held in the securitization trusts associated with the Loans and (iii) certain fixed, tangible and intangible assets including, without limitation, SLC's student loan origination business. Over 70% of the Loans are covered by insurance, and approximately 65% of the Loans are in repayment. Discover will also effectively assume securitization debt of approximately $3.4 billion associated with the Loans.
Concurrently with the entry into the Merger Agreement, Discover also entered into a Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement and an Indemnification Agreement with Citibank. Under the Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement, Citibank has agreed to pay Discover the amount, if any, by which the aggregate Merger Consideration exceeds the closing purchase price of the securitization trust certificates, plus the absolute value of all reimbursable liabilities, less all cash or cash equivalents reflected on the closing balance sheet (excluding any cash and cash equivalents taken into account in determining the closing purchase price of the securitization trust certificates). If the aggregate Merger Consideration is less than such amount, Discover would make a payment to Citibank. Under the terms of the Indemnification Agreement, CitiBank has agreed to indemnify Discover for liabilities and losses arising from and relating to (i) SLC's asset sales to Sallie Mae and Citibank, (ii) failure of the issuers of the insurance policies covering the Loans to perform their obligations, and (iii) certain other events.
In addition, in connection with the closing of the merger, Discover expects to enter into a transition services agreement with Citibank and its affiliates providing for, among other things, the ongoing servicing of the private student loans sold to Discover as part of the Merger Agreement as well as the provision of certain services by Discover to Citibank and its affiliates.
Completion of the merger is subject to certain conditions including, among others, the approval of the Merger Agreement by SLC's stockholders, the closing of SLC's asset sale transactions with Sallie Mae and Citibank and any regulatory approvals. Discover and Citibank have entered into a voting agreement with regard to Citibank's 80% voting interest in SLC in which Citibank has agreed to vote its entire interest in favor the Merger Agreement, subject to certain limitations. In connection with the merger, SLC has also agreed to customary provisions relating to the non-solicitation of alternative business combination transactions, subject to certain exceptions.
The Merger Agreement contains certain termination rights for both Discover and SLC and, further provides that, upon the termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, generally including an alternative business combination transaction, SLC will pay Discover a cash termination fee of up to 4% of the aggregate Merger Consideration. Further, Citibank has agreed to make certain compensating payments to Discover in the event Discover raises the Merger Consideration in response to any superior proposal.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
- Transaction expected to provide earnings accretion of approximately $.09 per share in 2011
- Acquisition expands Discover's market presence and origination capabilities in private student loans
Discover Financial Services (NYSE:DFS) today announced that it has reached an agreement to acquire The Student Loan Corporation ("SLC") for $600 million, or $30 per share. Separately and immediately prior to the closing of Discover's transaction, SLC will sell $28 billion of assets to Sallie Mae and $9 billion of assets to Citibank. Discover will acquire $4.2 billion of private student loans and related assets at an 8.5% discount, along with $3.4 billion of SLC's existing asset-backed securitization debt funding. The amount to be paid by Discover for the private student loan assets is subject to a post-closing purchase price adjustment between Discover and Citibank, which owns 80% of SLC's outstanding common stock.
Riverwoods, IL, Sept. 17, 2010 -
"The private student loan business is an important part of Discover's direct banking strategy, and this acquisition will enhance our competitive position in private student loan originations," said David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer of Discover. "The transaction is expected to be immediately profitable for our shareholders."
 
Nelms added, "The acquisition gives us a team with expertise in all functional areas of student loans and an outstanding network of relationships with colleges and universities that complements our own."
SLC has 52 years of experience in serving schools, students and families nationwide. The company is a top-three originator of private student loans and owns , an industry-leading website.
studentloan.com
The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar year 2010 and does not require approval by Discover's shareholders.
About Discover
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the , America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers personal and student loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its subsidiary. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
Discover Bank
www.discoverfinancial.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ
 
materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: unexpected difficulties or delays in executing the proposed transactions; the company's ability to successfully transition and integrate the new business, including operations, technology, marketing; the company's ability to maintain relationships with schools, vendors and parties related to the transaction; the company's ability to retain key employees; the company's ability to execute on expense-reduction initiatives related to the new business; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws and rules related to student loans, financial regulatory reform and bankruptcy; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; and the company's ability to manage its credit risk. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
Additional factors that could cause the company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2009 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2010, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 


