FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20100301171239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The trusts used in the securitization activities of Discover Financial Services (the "Company") will be included in the Company's consolidated financial results beginning with the fiscal quarter ending February 28, 2010, in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 166, ("Statement No. 166") (codified under the FASB Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") Section 860, ) and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 167, ("Statement No. 167") (codified under ASC Section 810, ), which were effective for the Company at the beginning of its current fiscal year, December 1, 2009.
Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets  an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140
Transfers and Servicing
Amendments to FASB Interpretations No. 46(R)
Consolidation
The Company did not retrospectively adopt Statements No. 166 and 167 and, therefore, its financial statements prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") for 2010 and beyond will reflect the new accounting requirements, but the historical GAAP financial statements for periods ending on or before November 30, 2009 presented in Item 1 of its 10-Q filings and Item 8 of its 10-K filings will continue to reflect the accounting applicable prior to the Company's adoption of Statements No. 166 and 167.
To allow for a more meaningful historical comparison in analyzing financial data presented in 2010 and beyond, the Company has prepared schedules showing how the Company's consolidated statements of financial condition and income for each of the fiscal quarters and the years ended November 30, 2009 and 2008 would have been presented if the trusts used in the Company's securitization activities were consolidated into the Company's financial statements for such periods. The schedules for the Company and the Direct Banking segment, formerly referred to as the U.S. Card segment, are set forth in Exhibit 99.1. In preparing the schedules, the Company made adjustments to reflect a "managed basis" presentation for such periods, which included assumptions that securitized loan receivables and related debt issued from the trusts to third-party investors were consolidated in the Company's financial statements and that securitization income related to securitized loan receivables was separated into interest income, interest expense, provision for loan losses and other income.
The Company also made additional adjustments to reflect full consolidation of the trusts for such periods, including the following:
 
 
 
 
 
The schedules also include adjustments to exclude the income received in connection with the settlement of the Company's antitrust litigation with Visa and MasterCard from the fourth quarter of 2008 and in each quarter of 2009 and the income statement impact of the Morgan Stanley special dividend agreement dispute in the fourth quarter of 2009.
Management believes that the financial data in the schedules is useful to investors because the impact of Statements No. 166 and 167 beginning in the first quarter of 2010 will make comparisons to historical data more difficult. In addition, the impact of income received in connection with the settlement of the Company's antitrust litigation with Visa and MasterCard in the fourth quarter of 2008 and in each quarter of 2009 and the income statement impact of the Morgan Stanley special dividend agreement dispute in the fourth quarter of 2009 make comparisons of financial data for 2010 and beyond with these prior periods more difficult.
The information contained in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for purposes of
Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Note: Managed Adjustments represent adjustments to reflect the Company's previously reported managed basis presentation which included adding back certain assets and liabilities such as securitized loans and related borrowings to the balance sheet, which is different from a full consolidation of the trusts as required by Statement No. 167 (ASC 810).
 
 
 
Note: Managed Adjustments represent adjustments to reflect the Company's previously reported managed basis presentation which included recharacterizing securitization income to report interest income, interest expense, provision for loan losses and other income on securitized loans in the same lines as non-securitized loans.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


