FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20110404090038.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
(c)    On April 4, 2011, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had unanimously elected R. Mark Graf, age 46, as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, effective April 11, 2011. Prior to Mr. Graf's election, Roy Guthrie served as the Company's Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer. In connection with Mr. Graf's election as Chief Financial Officer, he will be entitled to an annual salary of $600,000, and he will be eligible for annual awards under the Company's Amended and Restated 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan. In order to compensate Mr. Graf for certain awards and benefits which he was required to forfeit upon leaving his prior employer, Mr. Graf will also receive (i) a grant valued at $1,000,000 in Restricted Stock Units which will vest, subject to certain forfeiture conditions, in four equal annual installments on January 2 of each year following the grant date and (ii) subject to certain forfeiture conditions, a cash award of $50,000 payable within 30 days of his employment start date. Unless otherwise provided in the Restricted Stock Unit agreement, the Restricted Stock Units may become fully vested before the end of the regular restriction period due to death, disability, retirement, workforce reduction or a change in control of the Company. Mr. Graf will be eligible to participate in the Company's Change in Control Severance Policy but will not be eligible to receive a tax gross up payment with respect to any severance payment to which he may become entitled.
Prior to joining Discover, Mr. Graf was employed by Aquiline Capital Partners LLC, a private equity firm specializing in investments in the financial services industry, where he worked for approximately three years serving as an investment advisor responsible for sourcing, structuring, diligence and negotiations for investments in financial services companies. Prior to serving at Aquiline Capital, he was a partner at Barrett Ellman Stoddard Capital, LLC, a private equity firm focused on the financial services industry, from 2006 - 2008. Prior to that, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer for Fifth Third Bancorp from 2004 to mid-2006.
Mr. Graf has no family relationships with any director or executive officer of the Company. Since December 1, 2009, there have been no transactions, or proposed transactions, to which the Company was or is a party, in which Mr. Graf had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest.
 
The exhibit accompanying this report is listed in the accompanying Exhibit Index.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today announced that R. Mark Graf, 46, has been named executive vice president, chief financial officer and chief accounting officer. Graf will oversee Discover's financial operations, including treasury, accounting, investor relations and all financial reporting functions. He will report directly to David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer for Discover.
Riverwoods, IL, April 4, 2011
Graf was most recently an investment advisor with New York-based Aquiline Capital Partners, a private equity firm specializing in investments in the financial services industry. Prior to that, he was a partner at Barrett Ellman Stoddard Capital from 2006 to 2008. Graf was executive vice president and chief financial officer for Fifth Third Bank from 2004 to 2006, after having served as its treasurer from 2001 to 2004.
"Mark's track record of leadership and deep expertise in banking and financial services make him a strong addition to our senior team," Nelms said. "As Discover continues to grow and develop our markets, Mark's contributions and perspective will be invaluable."
"I look forward to joining Discover," Graf said. "They have established an impressive track record of managing the business during some challenging times, which has positioned them well to capitalize on the opportunities ahead."
Graf will succeed Roy Guthrie, who has served as CFO for six years. Guthrie will remain with Discover to help ensure a smooth transition period.
"We are grateful for Roy's tremendous contributions and steady guidance, and we wish him the very best in retirement," Nelms said.
Graf will begin his new role at Discover April 11.
About Discover
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the , America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers personal and student loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its subsidiary. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
Discover Bank
www.discoverfinancial.com
Media Contact
Jon Drummond
jondrummond@discover.com
(224) 405-1888


