FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20110623083034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Form 8-K
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.           Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On June 23, 2011, Discover Financial Services (the Company) released financial information with respect to the quarter ended May 31, 2011. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of the Company's Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended May 31, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES REPORTS ALL-TIME RECORD QUARTERLY
 
 
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today reported net income of $600 million for the second quarter of 2011, as compared to $258 million for the second quarter of 2010.
Riverwoods, IL, June 23, 2011
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Our all-time record results this quarter reflect the effectiveness of the Discover business model," said David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer of Discover.  "Sustained improvements in credit performance have driven substantial releases of credit loss reserves, a portion of which has been reinvested for growth.  The benefits of these investments can be seen in both our Direct Banking and Payment Services results this quarter.  Our capital levels have also benefited from this outstanding performance, leading us to our recent announcement of a $1 billion share repurchase program.  While the U.S. economy has yet to show significant strengthening, we are confident that we can continue to achieve profitable growth in all of our lending businesses, complemented by the contribution from our payments activities."
"
 
Segment Results:
 
Direct Banking
 
Direct Banking pretax income of $883 million in the second quarter of 2011 was a $497 million improvement from the second quarter of 2010.  Pretax income included $25 million related to The Student Loan Corporation.
 
Total loans ended the quarter at $52.5 billion, up 5% compared to the prior year, reflecting a $3.7 billion increase in private student loans and a $640 million increase in personal loans, partially offset by a $367 million decline in credit card loans.  The increase in student loans includes the acquisition of $3.1 billion in private student loans in the first quarter of 2011.  Credit card loans grew $644 million, or 1%, from the prior quarter, ending the quarter at $45.0 billion.  Discover personal loans increased $193 million, or 10%, from the prior quarter as the company continues to diversify its loan portfolio.
 
Net interest margin was 9.15%, relatively unchanged from the prior year and down 7 basis points from the first quarter of 2011.  Credit card yield decreased 36 basis points from the prior year and 8 basis points from the prior quarter.  The decline in yield reflects the impacts of the CARD Act and an increase in promotional rate balances, partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.  Interest expense as a percent of loans decreased 31 basis points from the prior year and 10 basis points from the prior quarter as the company continued to take advantage of available low rate funding.
 
 
1
 
 
 
Net interest income increased $46 million from the prior year, primarily driven by an increase in loan balances related to the student loan acquisition and lower funding related costs. This was partially offset by a decrease in interest income on credit cards reflecting the lower yield.
 
The delinquency rate for credit card loans over 30 days past due reached an all-time low of 2.79%, an improvement of 206 basis points from the prior year, and 80 basis points from the prior quarter.  The credit card net charge-off rate decreased to 5.01% for the second quarter of 2011, down 355 basis points from the prior year and 95 basis points from the prior quarter.
 
Provision for loan losses of $176 million decreased $548 million, or 76%, from the prior year, driven by lower charge-offs and a reduction in the allowance for loan losses.  Principal charge-offs decreased $424 million from the prior year. Improvement in the outlook for credit performance resulted in a reserve release of $401 million in the second quarter of 2011 versus a release of $277 million in the second quarter of 2010.
 
Other income increased $22 million, or 5%, from the prior year. The second quarter of 2010 included a reduction in income related to overlimit fee charge-offs.  The second quarter of 2011 included transition services revenue related to The Student Loan Corporation and an increase in the value of the federal student loans held for sale.
 
Expenses were up $119 million, or 25%, from the prior year, reflecting higher investments in marketing and advertising, higher compensation expense, higher costs related to recovering charged-off accounts, increased fraud costs and expenses related to The Student Loan Corporation.  The second quarter of 2011 also included reserves for various pending litigation.
 
Payment Services
 
Payment Services pretax income of $43 million in the quarter was up $7 million, or 19%, from the prior year driven principally by a $9 million increase in revenues partially offset by a $2 million increase in expenses.  The increase in revenue was driven by an increase in transactions on the PULSE network and higher margins.
 
Payment Services dollar volume was a record $45.9 billion for the second quarter, up 24% from the prior year, driven by higher PULSE, Diners Club International and third-party issuer volume.  The number of transactions on the PULSE network increased 25%.
 
Effective Tax Rate
 
The company's effective tax rate was 35.2% for the second quarter of 2011 compared to 38.9% in the second quarter of 2010. The second quarter of 2011 included a tax benefit due to the reversal of a tax valuation allowance related to a previous realized capital loss.
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
On June 15, 2011, the companyannounced that its Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program, authorizing the company to purchase up to $1 billion of its common stock.  The program expires on June 14, 2013, and may be terminated at any time. The company expects to make share repurchases under the program from time to time based on market conditions and other factors, subject to legal and regulatory restrictions.
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Proposed Acquisition of Mortgage Origination Business
 
On May 12, 2011, the company announced it had reached a definitive agreement to acquire substantially all of the operating and related assets of Home Loan Center, a subsidiary of Tree.com, Inc., for approximately $55.9 million, which will add a residential mortgage component to Discover's direct-to-consumer banking business.  The company intends to originate eligible consumer mortgages to sell in secondary markets on a servicing-released basis. The acquisition is subject to closing conditions, including the approvals of regulators and Tree.com, Inc. stockholders, and is expected to close by the end of 2011.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
The company will host a conference call to discuss its second quarter results on Thursday, June 23, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. Central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at .
http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com
 
About Discover
 
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the , America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers personal and student loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its subsidiary. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
Discover Bank
www.discoverfinancial.com
 
Contacts:
 
Investors:
Craig Streem, 224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
 
Media:
Jon Drummond, 224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com
 
A financial summary follows. Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the financial supplement filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Both the earnings release and the financial supplement are available online at the SECs website (
http://www.sec.gov
) and the companys website (http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com).
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements, which speak to our expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the companys management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
 
 
3
 
 
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment and the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws and rules related to financial regulatory reform, new laws and rules limiting or modifying certain credit card practices, new laws and rules affecting securitizations, funding and liquidity, and bank holding company regulations and supervisory guidance; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; the companys ability to manage its expenses; the companys ability to successfully achieve card acceptance across its networks and maintain relationships with network participants; the companys ability to sustain and grow its private student loan business; the companys ability to manage its credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets; the impact of rating agency actions; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; losses in the companys investment portfolio; restrictions on the companys operations resulting from financing transactions; the companys ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers; the companys ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events; fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems; the companys ability to introduce new products or services; the companys ability to sustain its investment in new technology and manage its relationships with third-party vendors; the companys ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers; the companys ability to attract and retain employees; the companys ability to protect its reputation and its intellectual property; difficulty obtaining regulatory approval for, financing, transitioning, integrating or managing the expenses of acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products or technologies; and new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters. The company routinely evaluates and may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, technologies, loan portfolios or deposits, which may involve payment in cash or the company's debt or equity securities.  The companys upcoming acquisition of the mortgage origination business of Tree.com, Inc. is subject to closing conditions including, among others, approvals of regulators and Tree.com, Inc. stockholders.  For additional information regarding the acquisition, see the companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 12, 2011.
 
Additional factors that could cause the companys results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under Risk Factors, Business  Competition, Business  Supervision and Regulation and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2010 and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2011, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
5

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
Volume is derived from data provided by licensees for Diners Club branded cards issued outside of North America and is subject to subsequent revision or amendment.
1
 
Note:  See Glossary of Financial Terms for definitions of financial terms.
 
 
1
 
 
 
Tangible Common Equity ("TCE") is a non-GAAP measure.  The Company believes TCE is a more meaningful measure to investors of the net asset value of the Company.  For corresponding reconciliation of TCE to a GAAP financial measure see Reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP data schedule.
1  
 
Excludes $1.1 billion of investments pledged to the Federal Reserve, which is included within the liquidity investment portfolio.
2  
 
Note:  See Glossary of Financial Terms for definitions of financial terms.
 
 
2
 
 
 
Total Loans includes mortgages and other loans.
1 
 
Purchased Credit Impaired ("PCI") loans were acquired in The Student Loan Corporation transaction on December 31, 2010. PCI loans are loans for which a deterioration in credit quality occurred between the origination date and the acquisition date.  These loans were initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated lives of the loans as long as cash flows are reasonably estimable, even if the loans are contractually past due. PCI loans are private student loans and are included in total loan receivables.
2
 
Excludes PCI loans (described above) that were acquired as part of The Student Loan Corporation transaction which are accounted for on a pooled basis.  Since a pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of a pool, or that of the individual loans within a pool, is not meaningful.  Because the company is recognizing interest income on a pool of loans, it is all considered to be performing.
3
 
The Reserve Rate includes federal student loans held for sale.
4
 
Note:  See Glossary of Financial Terms for definitions of financial terms.
 
 
3
 
 
 
Federal Student Loans are held-for-sale as of November 30, 2010.
1
 
Purchased Credit Impaired ("PCI") loans were acquired in The Student Loan Corporation transaction on December 31, 2010. PCI loans are loans for which a deterioration in credit quality occurred between the origination date and the acquisition date.  These loans were initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated lives of the loans as long as cash flows are reasonably estimable, even if the loans are contractually past due. PCI loans are private student loans and are included in total loan receivables.
2
 
Excludes PCI loans (described above) that were acquired as part of The Student Loan Corporation transaction which are accounted for on a pooled basis.  Since a pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of a pool, or that of the individual loans within a pool, is not meaningful.  Because the company is recognizing interest income on a pool of loans, it is all considered to be performing.
3
 
The Reserve Rate includes federal student loans held for sale.
4
 
Note:  See Glossary of Financial Terms for definitions of financial terms.
 
 
4
 
 
 
Note:  See Glossary of Financial Terms for definitions of financial terms.
 
 
5
 
 
Discover Financial Services
Glossary of Financial Terms
 
represents total equity divided by ending common shares outstanding.
Book Value per share
 
are regulatory measures used to evaluate capital adequacy. To be considered "well-capitalized," total risk-based, tier 1 risk-based, and tier 1 leverage ratios of 10%, 6% and 5% respectively must be maintained. Total Risk Based Capital Ratio represents total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 Capital Ratio represents tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 Leverage Ratio represents tier 1 capital divided by average total assets.
Capital Ratios
 
represents loans delinquent over thirty days divided by ending loans (total or respective loans, as appropriate).
Delinquency Rate (Over 30 Days)
 
represents loans delinquent over ninety days divided by ending loans (total or respective loans, as appropriate).
Delinquency Rate (Over 90 Days)
 
represents net income allocated to common stockholders divided by the weighted average common shares outstanding.
Earnings Per Share
 
represents tax expense divided by income before income taxes.
Effective Tax Rate
 
represents interest income on loan receivables (annualized) divided by average loans for the reporting period.
Interest Yield
 
represents cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash-in-process) and other investments.
Liquidity Investment Portfolio
 
represents net income less (i) dividends and accretion of discount on shares of preferred stock and (ii) income allocated to participating securities.
Net Income Allocated to Common Stockholders
 
represents net interest income (annualized) divided by average total loans for the period.
Net Interest Margin
 
represents net principal charge-off dollars (annualized) divided by average loans for the reporting period.
Net Principal Charge-off Rate
 
represents income before income taxes (annualized) divided by total average loans for the period.
Pretax Return on Loan Receivables
 
represents gross proprietary sales volume on the Discover Network.
Proprietary Network Volume
 
represents the allowance for loan losses divided by total loans.
Reserve Rate
 
represents net income (annualized) divided by average total equity for the reporting period.
Return on Equity
 
represents total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
Tangible Assets
 
, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles. The Company believes TCE is a more meaningful measure to investors of the net asset value of the Company. For corresponding reconciliation of TCE to a GAAP financial measure, see Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Data schedule.
Tangible Common Equity ("TCE")
 
,a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by total loans less the allowance for loan loss (period end).
Tangible Common Equity/Net Loans
 
 
 
,a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by ending common shares outstanding.
Tangible Common Equity per Share
 
 
 
, a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
Tangible Common Equity/Tangible Assets
 
 
represents asset-backed conduit funding facilities, committed unsecured credit facility and Federal Reserve discount window (excluding investments pledged to the Federal Reserve, which are included within the liquidity investment portfolio).
Undrawn Credit Facilities
 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity ("TCE"), a non-GAAP financial measure, represents common equity less goodwill and intangibles.  A reconciliation of TCE to common equity, a GAAP financial measure, is shown above.  Other financial services companies may also use TCE and definitions may vary, so we advise users of this information to exercise caution in comparing TCE of different companies.  TCE is included because management believes that common equity excluding goodwill and intangibles is a more meaningful measure to investors of the true net asset value of the company.
 
 
6


