FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20110103083035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 3, 2011, Discover Financial Services ("DFS") announced that it had completed the acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation ("SLC") on December 31, 2010. Discover Bank ("Discover"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of DFS, acquired SLC for aggregate consideration of $600 million (the "Aggregate Merger Consideration"), in a merger transaction, with SLC surviving the merger as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Discover, in accordance with the Agreement and Plan of Merger entered into between Discover and SLC on September 17, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement"). Discover received a purchase price closing adjustment in the form of a cash payment of approximately $234 million by Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank"), 80% owner of SLC before the merger, resulting in a net cash outlay by Discover of approximately $366 million for the acquisition of SLC. At the effective time of the merger, which was 11:59 p.m. Eastern time on December 31, 2010, each outstanding share of SLC common stock was converted into the right to receive $30 in cash, without interest. The press release containing this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Just prior to the effectiveness of the merger, SLC completed two related asset sale transactions, one with SLM Corporation ("Sallie Mae") pursuant to which it sold approximately $27 billion of its federal student loans and related assets, constituting the majority of SLC's federal student loan portfolio, and another with Citibank, pursuant to which it sold approximately $8.7 billion of certain federal and private student loans and other assets. After consummation of these two transactions, SLC held only the private student loans and related assets and liabilities described below.
As a result of the merger, Discover acquired: (i) the beneficial interests in securitization trusts formed for the purpose of holding the private student loans associated with a public securitization transaction issued out of the SLC Private Student Loan Trust 2006-A, and a private securitization transaction issued out of the SLC Private Student Loan Trusts 2010-A and 2010-B (collectively, the "Loans"), (ii) the cash reserves held in the securitization trusts associated with the Loans and (iii) certain fixed, tangible and intangible assets including, without limitation, SLC's student loan origination business. The total assets Discover acquired had a book value of approximately $4.2 billion as of November 30, 2010. Discover also assumed securitization debt and other liabilities of approximately $3.4 billion. Discover acquired the Loans and other assets at an 8.5% discount, which will be applied to balance sheet items through purchase accounting entries.
In connection with the closing of the merger, Discover consented to the commutation of certain insurance policies covering certain of the Loans, as further described below in Item 8.01, and entered into amendments of the Indemnification Agreement with Citibank and the Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement with Citibank and SLC that were entered into concurrently with the Merger Agreement, as further described below.
Under the terms of the Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement, Citibank paid Discover approximately $234 million, which is the amount by which the Aggregate Merger Consideration ($600 million) exceeded the closing purchase price of the securitization trust certificates (approximately $439 million), plus the absolute value of all reimbursable liabilities (approximately $57 million), plus an amount equal to a portion of the commutation payment made in connection with the commutation of certain insurance policies covering certain of the Loans (approximately $16 million). The provision for the commutation payment was added to the Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement by amendment. The commutation is further described in Item 8.01.
Under the terms of the original Indemnification Agreement, Citibank agreed to indemnify Discover for liabilities and losses arising from and relating to (i) SLC's asset sales to Sallie Mae and Citibank, (ii) failure of the issuers of the insurance policies covering the Loans to perform their obligations, and (iii) certain other events. Under the terms of the amendment to the Indemnification Agreement, Citibank agreed to indemnify Discover for liabilities and losses arising from and relating to the commutation of certain insurance policies covering the Loans, as further described in Item 8.01.
 
In connection with the closing of the merger, Discover consented to the commutation of three of SLC's student loan insurance policies with United Guaranty Commercial Insurance Company of North Carolina ("United Guaranty") covering certain of the Loans. Accordingly, SLC and United Guaranty entered into a Commutation Agreement and Release whereby United Guaranty agreed to make a lump sum payment to SLC in consideration of the termination of United Guaranty's obligations under the commuted policies. None of the commuted policies covers any of the Loans associated with the public securitization transaction issued out of the SLC Private Student Loan Trust 2006-A. In connection with the foregoing, Discover and Citi agreed to amend the Indemnification Agreement, and Discover, Citi and SLC agreed to amend the Purchase Price Adjustment Agreement, as described above in Item 1.01.
In addition, in connection with the closing of the merger, Discover entered into a Transition Services Agreement with Citibank and its affiliates providing for, among other things, the ongoing servicing of the Loans as well as the provision of certain services by Discover to Citibank and its affiliates.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE:DFS) today announced the completion on Dec. 31, 2010, of its acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation (SLC).
Riverwoods, IL, Jan. 3, 2011
The acquisition included SLC's ongoing private student loan business and private student loans and other assets totaling $4.2 billion, along with $3.4 billion of SLC's existing asset-backed securitization funding and other liabilities. The acquisition was preceded by a series of transactions in which Sallie Mae purchased $27 billion of SLC's federal student loans and related assets, and Citibank purchased $8.7 billion of SLC's federal and private student loans and other assets.
The acquisition expands Discover's presence in the private student loan market by combining forces with a top-three originator of private student loans in the country. With SLC's more than 50 years of expertise, Discover significantly increases its capabilities to serve schools, and help students and their families afford a college education.
About Discover
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the , America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers personal and student loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its subsidiary. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
Discover Bank
www.discoverfinancial.com
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the company's management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: the company's ability to successfully transition and integrate the new business, including operations, technology and marketing; the company's ability to maintain relationships with schools, vendors and parties related to the transaction; the company's ability to retain key employees; the company's ability to execute on expense-reduction initiatives related to the new business; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation and regulatory and legal actions, including new laws and rules related to student loans, financial regulatory reform and bankruptcy; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; and the company's ability to manage its credit risk. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
 
Additional factors that could cause the company's results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under "Risk Factors" and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2009 and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 28, 2010, May 31, 2010 and August 31, 2010, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
Contacts:
Investors:
Craig Streem
224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
Media:
Laura Gingiss
224-405-0185
lauragingiss@discover.com
 


