FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20121220083031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
 
 
 
 
 
Commission File Number: 001-33378
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           
On December 20, 2012, Discover Financial Services (the Company) released financial information with respect to the quarter and year ended November 30, 2012. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of the Company's Financial Data Supplement for the quarter and year ended November 30, 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
On December 18, 2012, the Company announced that the Board of Directors had unanimously elected Edward McGrogan, age 46, as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company, effective immediately. Prior to Mr. McGrogan's appointment, Mark Graf, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, acted as principal accounting officer. In connection with Mr. McGrogan's election as Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, he will be entitled to an annual salary of $275,000 and will be eligible to receive an annual performance-based award under the Company's Amended and Restated 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
 
Mr. McGrogan has been employed by the Company for approximately four years serving most recently, as Vice President, Reporting and Accounting Services and previously as Director, External Reporting.  Prior to working at the Company, Mr. McGrogan worked at LaSalle Bank N.A. for approximately ten years in a variety of positions, including as Senior Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis from 2006 until 2008 and previously as First Vice President, External Reporting.
 
Mr. McGrogan has no family relationships with any director or executive officer of the Company. Since December 1, 2009, there have been no transactions, or proposed transactions, to which the Company was or is a party, in which Mr. McGrogan had or is to have a direct or indirect material interest.
 
                   
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today reported net income of $551 million or $1.07 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2012, as compared to $513 million or $0.95 per share for the fourth quarter of 2011.  The companys return on equity was 23%.
Riverwoods, IL, Dec. 20, 2012
Fourth Quarter Highlights
Our strategy and business model are working as we achieved organic growth in all of our lending products, said David Nelms, chairman and CEO of Discover.  I am proud of our strong performance this year and our achievement of record net income, record volumes and a strong return on equity.  In 2012, we established new partnerships in payments, diversified our direct banking product offerings and demonstrated our commitment to returning excess capital, which we are further emphasizing with a 40% increase in our dividend.
Segment Results:
Direct Banking
Direct Banking pretax income of $827 million in the quarter was up $51 million, or 7%, from the prior year.
Discover card sales volume grew 6% from the prior year to $26.5 billion.  Credit card loans ended the quarter at $49.6 billion, up 6%, from the prior year.
Total loans ended the quarter at $61.0 billion, up 6% compared to the prior year.  Private student loans increased $426 million, or 6%, from the prior year and personal loans increased $624 million, or 24%, from the prior year.
Net interest margin was 9.44%, up 34 basis points from the prior year.  The increase in net interest margin from the prior year reflects decreased funding costs partially offset by lower total yield.  Credit card yield was 12.16%, a decrease of 20 basis points from the prior year.  The decline in credit card yield from the prior year reflects an increase in promotional rate balances and a decline in higher rate balances, partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.  Interest expense as a percent of total loans decreased 49 basis points from the prior year as the company continued to take advantage of available low rate funding.
Net interest income increased $134 million, or 11%, from the prior year, benefiting from loan growth and lower interest expense, which was partially offset by a decline in total yield.
The delinquency rate for credit card loans over 30 days past due was 1.86%, an improvement of 53 basis points from the prior year, and a seasonal increase of 5 basis points from the prior quarter.  The credit card net charge-off rate improved to 2.29% for the fourth quarter of 2012, down 95 basis points from the prior year, and 14 basis points from the prior quarter.
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
Net principal charge-offs were $87 million lower than the prior year as a result of the continued decline in delinquencies and bankruptcies.  Provision for loan losses of $338 million increased $19 million, or 6%, from the prior year, driven by an increase in loan loss reserves partially offset by the decline in charge-offs.  The reserve build for the fourth quarter of 2012 was $38 million reflecting reserve additions due to loan growth.  The fourth quarter of 2011 included a reserve release of $68 million.
Other income increased $50 million, or 11%, from the prior year primarily due to revenue from Discover Home Loans, which was launched in June 2012 after acquiring Home Loan Center assets from Tree.com, higher interchange revenue as a result of increased sales and a $26 million gain on sale of a minority investment.  Increases in other income were partially offset by higher customer rewards.
 
Expenses were up $114 million, or 18%, from the prior year.  The increase was primarily due to higher employee compensation and marketing expenses associated with the Home Loan Center acquisition in June, increased card marketing initiatives and higher headcount.
Payment Services
Payment Services pretax income was $33 million in the quarter, down $9 million, or 21%, from the prior year.  Revenue increased $8 million, primarily driven by an increase in point-of-sale transactions on the PULSE network.  Expenses were up $17 million from the prior year mainly due to higher marketing and employee expenses,
primarily related to new partnership and growth initiatives.
 
Payment Services dollar volume was $49.0 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012, up 13% from the prior year, driven by higher PULSE and Network Partners volume.  Network Partners was formerly referred to as Third-Party Issuers. 
The name change does not impact the composition of the business.
 
Dividend
The companys board declared a cash dividend of $0.14 per share of common stock, payable on Jan. 17, 2013, to stockholders of record at the close of business on Jan. 3, 2013.
Share Repurchases
In the fourth quarter of 2012, the company repurchased approximately 10 million shares of common stock for $401 million. Shares outstanding declined by 2% from prior quarter.
Conference Call and Webcast Information
The company will host a conference call to discuss its fourth quarter results on Thursday, December 20, 2012, at 10:30 a.m. Central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at .
http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com
About Discover
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers home loans, private student loans, personal loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its . Its  consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
,
direct banking business
payment businesses
www.discoverfinancial.com
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
A financial summary follows. Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the financial supplement filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Both the earnings release and the financial supplement are available online at the SECs website (
http://www.sec.gov
) and the companys website (http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com).
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements, which speak to our expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the companys management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, supervisory guidance, and regulatory and legal actions, including those related to financial regulatory reform, consumer financial services practices, and funding, capital and liquidity; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; the companys ability to manage its expenses; the companys ability to successfully achieve full card acceptance across its networks and maintain relationships with network participants; the companys ability to sustain and grow its private student loan portfolio; the companys ability to manage its credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets; the impact of rating agency actions; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; losses in the companys investment portfolio; limits on the company's ability to pay dividends and repurchase its common stock; fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems; the companys ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers; the companys ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events; the companys ability to introduce new products or services; the companys ability to manage its relationships with third-party vendors; the company's ability to maintain current technology and integrate new and acquired systems; the companys ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers; the companys ability to attract and retain employees; the companys ability to protect its reputation and its intellectual property; difficulty obtaining regulatory approval for, financing, closing, transitioning, integrating or managing the expenses of acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products or technologies; and new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters. The company routinely evaluates and may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, technologies, loan portfolios or deposits, which may involve payment in cash or the company's debt or equity securities.
Additional factors that could cause the companys results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under Risk Factors, Business  Competition, Business  Supervision and Regulation and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2011; Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended February 29, 2012, May 31, 2012 and August 31, 2012; and "Risk Factors" in the company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2012, which are filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
CONTACT:
Discover Financial Services
Investors:
Bill Franklin, 224-405-1902
williamfranklin@discover.com
or
Media:
Jon Drummond, 224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com
 
 
4

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8


