FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20120321161531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Current Report
 
 
 
Commission File Number: 001-33378
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On March 21, 2012, Discover Financial Services (the Company) released financial information with respect to the quarter ended February 29, 2012. A copy of the press release containing this information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. In addition, a copy of the Company's Financial Data Supplement for the quarter ended February 29, 2012 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information contained in this Item 2.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, except as shall be expressly stated by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
  
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today reported net income of $631 million for the first quarter of 2012, as compared to $465 million for the first quarter of 2011.
RIVERWOODS, Ill.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 21, 2012
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
"Our results this quarter represent record first quarter earnings for Discover and are a great start for 2012," said David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer of Discover.  "Continued improvements in credit performance, solid organic growth in each of our lending products and strong volume growth across our networks were key drivers of this quarter's earnings.  We also recently announced that our board of directors approved a new $2 billion share repurchase authorization.  This action, along with the two dividend increases we announced last year, reflect the strength of our capital base and our confidence in the future earnings power of the company."
 
Segment Results:
 
Direct Banking
 
Direct Banking pretax income of $962 million in the quarter was up $285 million, or 42%, from the prior year.
 
Discover card sales volume grew 7% from the prior year to $25.6 billion, primarily driven by an increase in the number of customers using their Discover card.  Credit card loans increased, ending the quarter at $45.9 billion, up $1.6 billion from the prior year.
 
Total loans ended the quarter at $56.3 billion, up $4.6 billion, or 9%, compared to the prior year.  Private student loans increased $3.0 billion, including the acquisition of a $2.4 billion student loan portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2011.  Personal loans increased $764 million from the prior year.  The company sold its remaining $698 million of federal student loans in the first quarter of 2012.
 
Net interest margin was 9.03%, down 19 basis points from the prior year and 7 basis points from the prior quarter.  The decrease in net interest margin from the prior year reflects an increase in lower yielding student loans as well as a decline in credit card yield, partially offset by lower funding costs.  Credit card yield was 12.21%, a decrease of 44 basis points from the prior year and 15 basis points from the prior quarter.  The decline in credit card yield reflects the impacts of the CARD Act and an increase in promotional rate balances, partially offset by lower interest charge-offs.  Interest expense as a percent of total loans decreased 55 basis points from the prior year and 13 basis points from the prior quarter as the company continued to take advantage of available low rate funding.
 
 
 
 
 
Net interest income increased $123 million, or 11%, from the prior year, primarily driven by an increase in income from student and personal loans and lower interest expense. Interest income on credit card loans increased modestly from the prior year as an increase in loan balances was partially offset by the decline in yield.
 
The delinquency rate for credit card loans over 30 days past due was 2.22%, an improvement of 137 basis points from the prior year, and 17 basis points from the prior quarter.  The credit card net charge-off rate decreased to 3.07% for the first quarter of 2012, down 289 basis points from the prior year and 17 basis points from the prior quarter.
 
Provision for loan losses of $152 million decreased $266 million, or 64%, from the prior year, primarily driven by lower charge-offs as a result of the continued decline in delinquencies. The reserve release for the first quarter of 2012 was $226 million, versus a release of $271 million in the first quarter of 2011.
 
Other income decreased $22 million, or 5%, from the prior year. The first quarter of 2011 included a $16 million bargain purchase gain estimate related to the acquisition of The Student Loan Corporation.
 
Expenses were up $82 million, or 15%, from the prior year, due to increased compensation and benefits costs reflecting increased staffing, an increase in reserves related to litigation and regulatory matters, investments in growth initiatives and infrastructure, and higher fraud costs.
 
Payment Services
 
Payment Services pretax income was a record $52 million in the quarter, up $9 million, or 21%, from the prior year.  Revenue increased $9 million, primarily driven by an increase in higher margin point-of-sale transactions on the PULSE network.  Expenses were relatively flat, as higher compensation costs were offset by lower marketing costs related to the timing of programs.
 
Payment Services dollar volume was $46.7 billion for the first quarter, up 8% from the prior year, driven by higher PULSE, third-party issuer and Diners Club International volume.
 
Share Repurchases
 
As previously announced, the companys board of directors approved a new share repurchase program authorizing the company to purchase up to $2 billion of its common stock and also terminated the prior share repurchase program.  The company had repurchased a total of 18 million shares for $425 million under the prior program, all of which occurred in fiscal year 2011.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Information
 
The company will host a conference call to discuss its first quarter results on Wednesday, March 21, 2012, at 4:00 pm. Central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at .
http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com
 
About Discover
 
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the , America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers personal and student loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its subsidiary. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit .
Discover card
Discover Bank
www.discoverfinancial.com
 
 
 
 
 
A financial summary follows. Financial, statistical, and business related information, as well as information regarding business and segment trends, is included in the financial supplement filed as Exhibit 99.2 to the companys Current Report on Form 8-K filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Both the earnings release and the financial supplement are available online at the SECs website (
http://www.sec.gov
) and the companys website (http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com).
 
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements, which speak to our expected business and financial performance, among other matters, contain words such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, aim, will, may, should, could, would, likely, and similar expressions. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and expectations of the companys management and are subject to significant risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this press release, and there is no undertaking to update or revise them as more information becomes available.
 
The following factors, among others, could cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements: changes in economic variables, such as the availability of consumer credit, the housing market, energy costs, the number and size of personal bankruptcy filings, the rate of unemployment, the levels of consumer confidence and consumer debt, and investor sentiment; the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, supervisory guidance, and regulatory and legal actions, including those related to financial regulatory reform, consumer financial services practices, and funding, capital and liquidity; the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors; the companys ability to manage its expenses; the companys ability to successfully achieve full card acceptance across its networks and maintain relationships with network participants; the companys ability to sustain and grow its private student loan portfolio; the companys ability to manage its credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk, legal and compliance risk, and strategic risk; the availability and cost of funding and capital; access to deposit, securitization, equity, debt and credit markets; the impact of rating agency actions; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity prices and interest rates, currency values, investments, other market fluctuations and other market indices; losses in the companys investment portfolio; limits on the company's ability to pay dividends and repurchase its common stock; fraudulent activities or material security breaches of key systems; the companys ability to increase or sustain Discover card usage or attract new customers; the companys ability to attract new merchants and maintain relationships with current merchants; the effect of political, economic and market conditions, geopolitical events and unforeseen or catastrophic events; the companys ability to introduce new products or services; the companys ability to manage its relationships with third-party vendors; the company's ability to maintain current technology and integrate new and acquired systems; the companys ability to collect amounts for disputed transactions from merchants and merchant acquirers; the companys ability to attract and retain employees; the companys ability to protect its reputation and its intellectual property; difficulty obtaining regulatory approval for, financing, closing, transitioning, integrating or managing the expenses of acquisitions of or investments in new businesses, products or technologies; and new lawsuits, investigations or similar matters or unanticipated developments related to current matters. The company routinely evaluates and may pursue acquisitions of or investments in businesses, products, technologies, loan portfolios or deposits, which may involve payment in cash or the company's debt or equity securities. The companys pending acquisition of the mortgage origination business of Tree.com, Inc. is subject to closing conditions including, among others, approvals of regulators.
 
Additional factors that could cause the companys results to differ materially from those described in the forward-looking statements can be found under Risk Factors, Business  Competition, Business  Supervision and Regulation and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended November 30, 2011 which is filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's internet site (http://www.sec.gov).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total Loans includes mortgages and other loans.
1 
 
Purchased Credit Impaired ("PCI") loans are loans that were acquired in which a deterioration in credit quality occurred between the origination date and the acquisition date.  These loans were initially recorded at fair value and accrete interest income over the estimated lives of the loans as long as cash flows are reasonably estimable, even if the loans are contractually past due. PCI loans are private student loans and are included in total loan receivables.
2
 
Excludes PCI loans (described above) which are accounted for on a pooled basis.  Since a pool is accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and aggregate expectation of cash flows, the past-due status of a pool, or that of the individual loans within a pool, is not meaningful.  Because the company is recognizing interest income on a pool of loans, it is all considered to be performing.
3
 
The Reserve Rate includes federal student loans held for sale.
4
 
Volume is derived from data provided by licensees for Diners Club branded cards issued outside of North America and is subject to subsequent revision or amendment.
5
 
   Note:  See Glossary for definitions of financial terms in the financial supplement which is available online at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov) and the company's website (http://investorrelations.discoverfinancial.com).
 
 
CONTACT:
Discover Financial Services
Investors:
Craig Streem, 224-405-3575
craigstreem@discover.com
or
Media:
Jon Drummond, 224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES
GLOSSARY OF FINANCIAL TERMS
 
 
represents total equity divided by ending common shares outstanding.
Book Value per share
 
represents loans delinquent over thirty days divided by ending loans (total or respective loans, as appropriate).
Delinquency Rate (Over 30 Days)
 
represents loans delinquent over ninety days divided by ending loans (total or respective loans, as appropriate).
Delinquency Rate (Over 90 Days)
 
represents net income allocated to common stockholders divided by the weighted average common shares outstanding.
Earnings Per Share
 
represents tax expense divided by income before income taxes.
Effective Tax Rate
 
represents interest income on loan receivables (annualized) divided by average loans for the reporting period.
Interest Yield
 
represents cash and cash equivalents (excluding cash-in-process) and other investments.
Liquidity Portfolio
 
represents net income less (i) dividends and accretion of discount on shares of preferred stock and (ii) income allocated to participating securities.
Net Income Allocated to Common Stockholders
 
represents net interest income (annualized) divided by average total loans for the period.
Net Interest Margin
 
represents net principal charge-off dollars (annualized) divided by average loans for the reporting period.
Net Principal Charge-off Rate
 
represents income before income taxes (annualized) divided by total average loans for the period.
Pretax Return on Loan Receivables
 
represents gross proprietary sales volume on the Discover Network.
Proprietary Network Volume
 
are regulatory measures used to evaluate capital adequacy. To be considered "well-capitalized," total risk-based, tier 1 risk-based, and tier 1 leverage ratios of 10%, 6% and 5% respectively must be maintained. Total Risk Based Capital Ratio represents total capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 Capital Ratio represents tier 1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets. Tier 1 Leverage Ratio represents tier 1 capital divided by average total assets. Tier 1 Common Capital Ratio represents tier 1 common capital, a non-GAAP measure, divided by risk-weighted assets. For corresponding reconciliation of tier 1 common capital to a GAAP financial measure, see Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Data schedule.
Regulatory Capital Ratios
 
represents the allowance for loan losses divided by total loans.
Reserve Rate
 
represents net income (annualized) divided by average total equity for the reporting period.
Return on Equity
 
represents total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
Tangible Assets
 
, a non-GAAP financial measure, represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles. The Company believes TCE is a more meaningful measure to investors of the net asset value of the Company. For corresponding reconciliation of TCE to a GAAP financial measure, see Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP Data schedule.
Tangible Common Equity ("TCE")
 
,a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by total loans less the allowance for loan loss (period end).
Tangible Common Equity/Net Loans
 
 
 
,a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by ending common shares outstanding.
Tangible Common Equity per Share
 
 
 
, a non-GAAP measure,represents total common equity less goodwill and intangibles divided by total assets less goodwill and intangibles.
Tangible Common Equity/Tangible Assets
 
 
represents asset-backed conduit funding facilities, committed unsecured credit facility and Federal Reserve discount window (excluding investments pledged to the Federal Reserve, which are included within the liquidity investment portfolio).
Undrawn Credit Facilities
 
 
 
 
 
 


