FILE:DFS/DFS-8K-20120924112254.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 21, 2012, Discover Financial Services announced that its subsidiary, Discover Bank, has reached an agreement in principle with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau to resolve previously disclosed matters related to the marketing of certain credit protection products sold by telephone. The press release containing this announcement is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) today announced that its subsidiary, Discover Bank, has reached an agreement in principle with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to resolve previously disclosed matters related to the marketing of certain credit protection products sold by telephone. The agreement is subject to final approval by both regulatory agencies.
Riverwoods, IL, Sept. 21, 2012
"We have worked hard to earn the loyalty of our cardmembers, and we are committed to marketing our products responsibly," said David Nelms, chairman and chief executive officer of Discover. "As always, we will continue to strive to deliver the highest standards of customer service and satisfaction."
The agreement requires the company to provide refunds of approximately $200 million to cardholders who purchased the products by telephone from December 2007 to August 2011 and calls for certain enhancements to the company's marketing practices. The company will pay an additional $14 million in civil monetary penalties to be split between the FDIC and the CFPB.
About Discover
Discover Financial Services (NYSE: DFS) is a direct banking and payment services company with one of the most recognized brands in U.S. financial services. Since its inception in 1986, the company has become one of the largest card issuers in the United States. The company operates the Discover card, America's cash rewards pioneer, and offers home loans, private student loans, personal loans, online savings accounts, certificates of deposit and money market accounts through its direct banking business. Its payment businesses consist of Discover Network, with millions of merchant and cash access locations; PULSE, one of the nation's leading ATM/debit networks; and Diners Club International, a global payments network with acceptance in more than 185 countries and territories. For more information, visit www.discoverfinancial.com.
Contacts:
Media Relations
Jon Drummond
224-405-1888
jondrummond@discover.com
Investor Relations
Bill Franklin
224-405-1902
williamfranklin@discover.com


