FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20060417171653.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 12, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 258-6000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.
     
Registrant's Business and Operations
 
 
The information set forth below under Item 2.03 is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 1.01.
 
 
 
On April 12, 2006, Viacom Inc. issued and sold $4.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes and debentures comprised of $1.50 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due 2011 (the "2011 Senior Notes"), $1.50 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") and $1.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior debentures due 2036 (the "2036 Debentures" and, together with the 2011 Senior Notes and the 2016 Senior Notes, the "Senior Notes and Debentures") to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. A copy of the press release, dated April 12, 2006, announcing the completion of the private placement of Senior Notes and Debentures is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
 
The Senior Notes and Debentures were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "Base Indenture"), between Viacom Inc. and The Bank of New York, trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture thereto dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "First Supplemental Indenture" and, together with the Base Indenture, the "Indentures"). On the maturity dates of the Senior Notes and Debentures, the holders will be entitled to receive 100% of the principal amount of the Senior Notes and Debentures. Interest on the Senior Notes and Debentures will be payable semi-annually in arrears on April 30 and October 30 of each year, beginning on October 30, 2006. The interest rate on the Senior Notes and Debentures may increase in certain circumstances if Viacom Inc. is not in timely compliance with its obligation to exchange or register the Senior Notes and Debentures pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") dated as of April 12, 2006 between Viacom Inc. and Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., on behalf of themselves and the other initial purchasers named therein, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
The Senior Notes and Debentures are unsecured senior obligations of Viacom Inc. and rank equally with all of Viacom Inc.'s existing and future unsecured senior obligations. The Senior Notes and Debentures are structurally subordinated to all obligations of Viacom Inc.'s subsidiaries including claims with respect to trade payables. Viacom Inc. may redeem some or all of the Senior Notes and Debentures at any time and from time to time at their principal amount, plus the applicable premium and accrued interest. Pursuant to the terms of the Indentures, Viacom
 
-2-
 
 
Inc.'s ability to (i) consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of its assets, (ii) create liens and (iii) enter into sale and leaseback transactions, is limited, subject to a number of important qualifications and exceptions as set forth in the Indentures. The Senior Notes and Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. Accordingly, transfer restrictions apply to the Senior Notes and Debentures.
 
Viacom Inc. used the net proceeds of the issuance of the Senior Notes and Debentures to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under its existing credit facilities.
 
The foregoing description of the Indentures is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the respective documents, copies of which are filed as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Some of the financial institutions party to the Registration Rights Agreement and their affiliates have performed, and/or may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services in the ordinary course of business for Viacom Inc. and its respective subsidiaries for which they have received, and/or will receive, customary fees and commissions.
 
 
 
 
 
-3-
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date: April 17, 2006
 
 
-4-
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
VIACOM INC.,
as Issuer
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
as Trustee
_________________________
 
Indenture
Dated as of April 12, 2006
 
_________________________
 
 
 
 
 
VIACOM INC.
Reconciliation and tie between Trust Indenture Act
of 1939 and Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006
______________
Note: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
(
Page
ARTICLE One
 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
ARTICLE Two
 
SECURITIES FORMS
ARTICLE Three
 
THE SECURITIES
_________________________
( Note: This table of contents shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE Four
 
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
ARTICLE Five
 
REMEDIES
ARTICLE Six
 
THE TRUSTEE
ARTICLE Seven
 
HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE Eight
 
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE
ARTICLE Nine
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
ARTICLE Ten
 
COVENANTS
ARTICLE Eleven
 
REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES
ARTICLE Twelve
 
SINKING FUNDS
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE Thirteen
 
[Reserved]
ARTICLE Fourteen
 
REPAYMENT AT OPTION OF HOLDERS
ARTICLE Fifteen
 
DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
SECTION 1505. Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions                                                                                                          81
ARTICLE Sixteen
 
MEETINGS OF HOLDERS OF SECURITIES
SECTION 1605. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings 84
ARTICLE Seventeen
 
Subordination of securities
SECTION 1702. Distribution on Dissolution, Liquidation and Reorganization; Subrogation of Securities                                                                                                                                    86
SECTION 1703. No Payment on Subordinated Securities in Event of Default on Senior Indebtedness                                                                                                                             88
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INDENTURE, dated as of April 12, 2006, between VIACOM INC., a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "
Company
"), having its principal office at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, and THE BANK OF NEW YORK, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "
Trustee
") having its Corporate Trust Office at 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286.
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its unsecured senior or subordinated debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), which may or may not be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), to be issued in one or more series unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such times and to have such other provisions as provided in this Indenture .
This Indenture is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, that are required to be part of this Indenture and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions.
All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid and legally binding agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done.
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually covenanted and agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of a series thereof, as follows:
ARTICLE ONE
 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION
SECTION 101. Definitions. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
(1)
          
the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular and, pursuant to Section 301, any such item may, with respect to any particular series of Securities, be amended, or modified or specified as being inapplicable;
(2)
          
all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein, and the terms "cash transaction" and "self-liquidating paper", as used in Section 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, shall have the meanings assigned to them in the rules of the Commission adopted under the Trust Indenture Act;
(3)
          
except as otherwise herein expressly provided, all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with
 
 
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America at the date of such computation; and
(4)
          
the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision.
Certain terms, used principally in Article Three, are defined in that Article.
"Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104.
"Additional Amounts" has the meaning specified in Section 1007.
"Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Agent" means any Security Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or Authenticating Agent.
"Attributable Debt" means, with regard to a Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property, the lesser of: (a) the fair market value of such property (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company); or (b) the present value of the total net amount of rent required to be paid under such lease during the remaining term thereof (including any period for which such lease has been extended and excluding any unexercised renewal or other extension options exercisable by the lessee, and excluding amounts on account of maintenance and repairs, services, taxes and similar charges and contingent rents), discounted at the rate of interest set forth or implicit in the terms of such lease (or, if not practicable to determine such rate, the weighted average interest rate per annum borne by the Securities of the applicable series then Outstanding) compounded semi-annually. In the case of any lease which is terminable by the lessee upon the payment of a penalty, such net amount shall be the lesser of the net amount determined assuming termination upon the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the net amount shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the net amount determined assuming no such termination.
"Authenticating Agent" means any Person appointed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 612 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities.
 
 
 
 
 
"Authorized Newspaper" means a newspaper, in the English language or in an official language of the country of publication, customarily published on each Business Day, whether or not published on Saturdays, Sundays or holidays, and of general circulation in each place in connection with which the term is used or in the financial community of each such place. Where successive publications are required to be made in Authorized Newspapers, the successive publications may be made on the same or on different days of the week in the same or in different newspapers in the same city meeting the foregoing requirements and in each case on any Business Day.
"Bearer Security" means any Security except a Registered Security.
"Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board.
"Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
"Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment or any other particular location referred to in this Indenture or in the Securities, means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment or other location are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
"Capitalized Lease" means any obligation of a Person to pay rent or other amounts incurred with respect to real property or equipment (other than in respect of telecommunications equipment including, without limitation, satellite transponders) acquired or leased by such Person and used in its business that is required to be recorded as a capital lease in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied as in effect from time to time.
"Clearstream" means Clearstream, socit anonyme, or its successor.
"Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
"Common Depositary" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
"Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
"Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by one Officer of the Company and delivered to the Trustee.
 
 
 
 
 
"Conversion Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(d).
"Conversion Event" means the cessation of use of (i) a Foreign Currency both by the government of the country which issued such Currency and by a central bank or other public institution of or within the international banking community for the settlement of transactions, (ii) the Euro both within the European Monetary System and for the settlement of transactions by public institutions of or within the European Union or (iii) any currency unit (or composite currency) other than the Euro for the purposes for which it was established.
"Corporate Trust Office" means the office of the Trustee at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office on the date of execution of this Indenture is located at 101 Barclay Street, Floor 8 West, New York, New York 10286, or such other office or address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by written notice to the Company.
"corporation" includes corporations, associations, companies and business or statutory trusts.
"coupon" means any interest coupon appertaining to a Bearer Security.
"Currency" means any currency or currencies, composite currency or currency unit or currency units, including, without limitation, the Euro, issued by the government of one or more countries or by any recognized confederation or association of such governments.
"Default" means any event which is, or after notice or passage of time or both would be, an Event of Default.
"Default Amount" has the meaning specified in Section 502.
"Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 307.
"Depositary" means, as applicable, either the U.S. Depositary or the Common Depositary.
"Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
"Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" has the meaning specified in Section 312(g).
"Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" has the meaning specified in Section 312(f).
"Election Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(h).
"Euro" means the basic unit of currency among participating European Union countries, as revised or replaced from time to time.
 
 
 
 
 
"Euro Security" means any Bearer Security, any Security initially represented by a Security in temporary global form exchangeable for Bearer Securities and any Security in permanent global form exchangeable for Bearer Securities.
"Euroclear" means Euroclear Bank S.A./N.V. as operator of Euroclear System, and any successor thereto.
"Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Date" has the meaning specified in Section 304.
"Exchange Rate Agent" means, with respect to Securities of or within any series, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, a New York Clearing House bank, designated pursuant to Section 301 or Section 313.
"Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate" means a certificate setting forth (i) the applicable Market Exchange Rate and (ii) the Dollar or Foreign Currency amounts of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any (on an aggregate basis and on the basis of a Security having the lowest denomination principal amount determined in accordance with Section 302 in the relevant Currency), payable with respect to a Security of any series on the basis of such Market Exchange Rate, signed by the Treasurer, any Vice President or any Assistant Treasurer of the Company.
"Federal Bankruptcy Code" means the Bankruptcy Act of Title 11 of the United States Code, as amended from time to time.
"Foreign Currency" means any Currency other than Currency of the United States.
"Government Obligations" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, securities which are (i) direct obligations of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of a particular series are payable, for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged, or (ii) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the government which issued the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation of such government, which, in either case are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank or trust company as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of interest on or principal of any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of a depository receipt; provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the Government Obligation or the specific payment of interest on or principal of the Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
 
 
 
 
 
"Holder" means, in the case of a Registered Security, the Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register and, in the case of a Bearer Security, the bearer thereof and, when used with respect to any coupon, shall mean the bearer thereof.
"Indebtedness" of any Person means, without duplication, (i) any obligation of such Person for money borrowed, (ii) any obligation of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes, or other similar instruments, (iii) any reimbursement obligation of such Person in respect of letters of credit or other similar instruments which support financial obligations which would otherwise become Indebtedness, (iv) any obligation of such Person under Capitalized Leases and (v) any obligation of any third party to the extent secured by a Lien on the assets of such Person; provided, however, that "Indebtedness" of such Person shall not include any obligation of such Person (i) to any Subsidiary of such Person or to any Person with respect to which such Person is a Subsidiary or (ii) specifically with respect to the production, distribution or acquisition of motion pictures or other programming rights, talent or publishing rights.
"Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed and as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, and shall include the terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301; provided, however, that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and shall include the terms of the particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established as contemplated by Section 301, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted, and exclusive of any provisions or terms adopted by means of one or more indentures supplemental hereto executed and delivered after such Person had become such Trustee but to which such Person, as such Trustee, was not a party.
"Indexed Security" means a Security the terms of which provide that the principal amount thereof payable at Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal face amount thereof at original issuance.
"interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity at the rate prescribed in such Original Issue Discount Security, and, when used with respect to a Security which provides for the payment of Additional Amounts pursuant to Section 1007, includes such Additional Amounts.
"Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
"Lien" means any pledge, mortgage, lien, encumbrance or other security interest.
 
 
 
 
 
"Market Exchange Rate" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, (i) for any conversion involving a currency unit on the one hand and Dollars or any Foreign Currency on the other, the exchange rate between the relevant currency unit and Dollars or such Foreign Currency calculated by the method specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of the relevant series, (ii) for any conversion of Dollars into any Foreign Currency, the noon (New York City time) buying rate for such Foreign Currency for cable transfers quoted in New York City as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and (iii) for any conversion of one Foreign Currency into Dollars or another Foreign Currency, the spot rate at noon local time in the relevant market at which, in accordance with normal banking procedures, the Dollars or Foreign Currency into which conversion is being made could be purchased with the Foreign Currency from which conversion is being made from major banks located in either New York City, London or any other principal market for Dollars or such purchased Foreign Currency, in each case determined by the Exchange Rate Agent. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, in the event of the unavailability of any of the exchange rates provided for in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), the Exchange Rate Agent shall use, in its sole discretion and without liability on its part, such quotation of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York as of the most recent available date, or quotations from one or more major banks in New York City, London or another principal market for the Currency in question, or such other quotations as the Exchange Rate Agent shall deem appropriate. Unless otherwise specified by the Exchange Rate Agent, if there is more than one market for dealing in any Currency by reason of foreign exchange regulations or otherwise, the market to be used in respect of such Currency shall be that upon which a non-resident issuer of securities designated in such Currency would purchase such Currency in order to make payments in respect of such securities.
"Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, notice of redemption, notice of option to elect repayment, notice of exchange or conversion or otherwise.
"Notice of Default" shall have the meaning provided in Section 501.
"Officer" means the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer, the Secretary, any Assistant Secretary or the Controller of the Company.
"Officer's Certificate" means a certificate signed by any Officer of the Company in his or her capacity as such Officer and delivered to the Trustee.
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, including an employee of the Company.
"Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502.
 
 
 
 
 
"Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities or any series of any Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities or all Securities of such series, as the case may be, theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except:
(i)
           
Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
(ii)
          
Securities, or portions thereof, for whose payment or redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto; provided that, if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made;
(iii)
         
Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1502 and 1503, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance and/or covenant defeasance as provided in Article Fifteen; and
(iv)
         
Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 306 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder or are present at a meeting of Holders for quorum purposes, and for the purpose of making the calculations required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the amount of principal thereof that would be (or shall have been declared to be) due and payable, at the time of such determination, upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of any Security denominated in a Foreign Currency that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the Dollar equivalent, determined as of the date such Security is originally issued by the Company as set forth in an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the Dollar equivalent as of such date of original issuance of the amount determined as provided in clause (i) above) of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal face amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected
 
 
 
in making such calculation or in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or such other obligor.
"Participant" means a Person who has an account with a Depositary.
"Paying Agent" means any Person (including the Company acting as Paying Agent) authorized by the Company to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities on behalf of the Company.
"Periodic Offering" means an offering of Securities of a series from time to time the specific terms of which Securities, including, without limitation, the rate or rates of interest or formula for determining the rate or rates of interest thereon, if any, the Stated Maturity or Maturities thereof and the redemption provision, if any, with respect thereto, are to be determined by the Company upon the issuance of such Securities.
"Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof, or any other entity.
"Place of Payment" means, when used with respect to the Securities of or within any series, the place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002.
"Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 306 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or the Security to which the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, as the case may be.
"Principal Property" means any parcel of real property and related fixtures or improvements (other than telecommunications equipment, including, without limitation, satellite transponders) owned by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and located in the United States, the aggregate book value of which on the date of determination exceeds $1.5 billion, other than any such real property and related fixtures or improvements, which, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
"Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, in whole or in part, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
"Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture.
"Registered Security" means any Security registered in the Security Register.
"Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Registered Securities of or within any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301.
"Repayment Date" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the date fixed for such repayment pursuant to this Indenture.
"Repayment Price" means, when used with respect to any Security to be repaid at the option of the Holder, the price at which it is to be repaid pursuant to this Indenture.
"Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any Vice President, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of such officer's knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
"Restricted Subsidiary" means a corporation all of the outstanding voting stock of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or by one or more of its Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more of its Subsidiaries, which is incorporated under the laws of a State of the United States, and which owns a Principal Property.
"Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any Person providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Principal Property which has been or is to be sold or transferred by the Company or such Person; provided, however, that "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" shall not include such arrangements that were existing on the date hereof, or at the time any Person owning a Principal Property becomes a Restricted Subsidiary (whether by acquisition or otherwise, including through merger or consolidation).
"Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture; provided, however, that if at any time there is more than one Person acting as Trustee under this Indenture, "Securities" with respect to the Indenture as to which such Person is Trustee shall have the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and shall more particularly mean Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, exclusive, however, of Securities of any series as to which such Person is not Trustee.
"Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 305.
 
 
 
 
 
"Senior Indebtedness" of any Person means all Indebtedness of such person, except (a) Indebtedness that pursuant to its terms is subordinated in right of payment to other Indebtedness and (b) Indebtedness evidenced by an instrument that expressly provides that such Indebtedness is not Senior Indebtedness. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the foregoing, Senior Indebtedness will not include any liability for taxes owed or owing by such Person or any trade payables.
"Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of or within any series means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 307.
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security or a coupon representing such installment of interest as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable, as such date may be extended pursuant to the provisions of Section 308.
"Subsidiary of any Person" means (i) a corporation a majority of the outstanding Voting Stock of which is at the time, directly or indirectly, owned by such Person, by one or more Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Subsidiaries thereof, or (ii) any other Person (other than a corporation), including, without limitation, a partnership or joint venture, in which such Person, one or more Subsidiaries thereof, or such Person and one or more Subsidiaries thereof, directly or indirectly, at the date of the determination thereof, has at least majority ownership interest entitled to vote in the election of directors, managers or trustees thereof (or other Persons performing similar functions).
"Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this Indenture was executed, except as provided in Section 905.
"Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this Indenture until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder; provided, however, that if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean only the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series.
"United States" means, unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction.
"United States Person" has the meaning given to that term by Regulation S under the Securities Act, as amended..
"U.S. Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more permanent global Securities, the Person designated as U.S. Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 301, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, and if any time there is more than one such
 
 
 
Person, "U.S. Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the U.S. Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series.
"Valuation Date" has the meaning specified in Section 312(c).
"Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "Vice President".
"Voting Stock" means stock of the class or classes having general voting power under ordinary circumstances to elect at least a majority of the board of directors, managers or trustees of a corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency).
"Yield to Maturity" means the yield to maturity, computed at the time of issuance of a Security (or, if applicable, at the most recent redetermination of interest on such Security) and as set forth in such Security in accordance with generally accepted United States bond yield computation principles.
SECTION 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions. Except as otherwise expressly provided by this Indenture, upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture (other than in connection with the delivery to the Trustee, upon initial issuance or otherwise, of any Security offered in a Periodic Offering for authentication pursuant to Section 303), the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that all conditions precedent, if any, provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent, if any, have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or request as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or request, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture (other than pursuant to Section 1008) shall include:
(1)
   
a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such condition or covenant and the definitions herein relating thereto;
(2)
   
a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based;
(3)
   
a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he or she has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable such individual to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such condition or covenant has been complied with; and
(4)
   
a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion as to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon an Opinion of Counsel, or a certificate or representations by counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the opinion, certificate or representations with respect to the matters upon which his or her certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such Opinion of Counsel or certificate or representations may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information as to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations as to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
SECTION 104. Acts of Holders. (a)
 
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of the Outstanding Securities of all series or one or more series, as the case may be, may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agents duly appointed in writing. If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series may, alternatively, be embodied in and evidenced by the record of Holders of Securities of such series voting in favor thereof, either in person or by proxies duly appointed in writing, at any meeting of Holders of Securities of such series duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Sixteen, or a combination of such instruments and any such record. Except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments or record or both are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments and any such record (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments or so voting at any such meeting. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent, or of the holding by any Person of a Security, shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. The record of any meeting of Holders of Securities shall be proved in the manner provided in Section 1606.
(b)
   
The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved by the affidavit of a witness of such execution or by a certificate of a
 
 
 
notary public or other officer authorized by law to take acknowledgments of deeds, certifying that the individual signing such instrument or writing acknowledged to him or her the execution thereof. Where such execution is by a signer acting in a capacity other than his individual capacity, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of authority. The fact and date of the execution of any such instrument or writing, or the authority of the Person executing the same, may also be proved in any other manner that the Trustee deems reasonably sufficient.
(c)
   
The principal amount and serial numbers of Registered Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, shall be proved by the Security Register.
(d)
   
The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Bearer Securities or by a certificate executed, as depositary, by any trust company, bank, banker or other depositary, wherever situated, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory, showing that at the date therein mentioned such Person had on deposit with such depositary, or exhibited to it, the Bearer Securities therein described; or such facts may be proved by the certificate or affidavit of the Person holding such Bearer Securities, if such certificate or affidavit is deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory. The Trustee and the Company may assume that such ownership of any Bearer Security continues until (1) another certificate or affidavit bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Bearer Security is produced, or (2) such Bearer Security is produced to the Trustee by some other Person, or (3) such Bearer Security is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security, or (4) such Bearer Security is no longer Outstanding. The principal amount and serial numbers of Bearer Securities held by any Person, and the date of holding the same, may also be proved in any other manner that the Trustee deems reasonably sufficient.
(e)
   
If the Company shall solicit from the Holders of Registered Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, the Company may, at its option, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, but the Company shall have no obligation to do so. Notwithstanding Section 316(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, such record date shall be the record date specified in or pursuant to such Board Resolution, which shall be a date not earlier than the date 30 days prior to the first solicitation of Holders generally in connection therewith and not later than the date such solicitation is completed. If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purposes of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act, and for that purpose the Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; provided that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders on such record date shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than eleven months after the record date.
 
 
 
 
 
(f)
    
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, any Authenticating Agent, or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security.
SECTION 105. Notices, etc. to Trustee or Company. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with,
(1)
   
the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished, filed or mailed, first class postage prepaid, in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office,
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
, or
(2)
   
the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture, to the attention of its Treasurer (with a copy to the General Counsel), or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company.
SECTION 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities by the Company or the Trustee, such notice shall be sufficiently given if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each such Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders of Registered Securities is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Registered Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities given as provided herein. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice.
If by reason of the suspension of or irregularities in regular mail service or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to mail notice of any event to Holders of Registered Securities when such notice is required to be given pursuant to any provision of this Indenture, then any manner of giving such notice as shall be satisfactory to the Trustee shall be deemed to be sufficient giving of such notice for every purpose hereunder.
Except as otherwise expressly provided herein or otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of Bearer Securities of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given if published in an Authorized Newspaper in The City of New York and in such other city or cities as may be
 
 
 
specified in such Securities on a Business Day, such publication to be not later than the latest date, and not earlier than the earliest date, prescribed for the giving of such notice. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given on the date of such publication or, if published more than once, on the date of the first such publication.
If by reason of the suspension of publication of any Authorized Newspaper or Authorized Newspapers or by reason of any other cause, it shall be impracticable to publish any notice to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, then such notification to Holders of Bearer Securities as shall be given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute sufficient notice to such Holders for every purpose hereunder. Neither the failure to give notice by publication to Holders of Bearer Securities as provided above, nor any defect in any notice so published, shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders of Bearer Securities or the sufficiency of any notice to Holders of Registered Securities given as provided herein.
Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver required or permitted under this Indenture shall be in the English language, except that any published notice may be in an official language of the country of publication.
Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver.
SECTION 107. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof.
SECTION 108. Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
SECTION 109. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in any Security or coupon shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 110. Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or coupons, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto, any Security Registrar, any Paying Agent, any Authenticating Agent and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture.
SECTION 111. Governing Law. THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES AND THE COUPONS SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS. THIS INDENTURE IS SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THE TRUST INDENTURE ACT THAT ARE REQUIRED TO BE PART
 
 
 
OF THIS INDENTURE AND SHALL, TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE, BE GOVERNED BY SUCH PROVISIONS.
SECTION 112. Legal Holidays. In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Repayment Date, sinking fund payment date or Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of any Security or coupon other than a provision in the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section), payment of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, Repayment Date or Redemption Date or sinking fund payment date, or at the Stated Maturity or Maturity; provided that no interest shall accrue for the period from and after such Interest Payment Date, Repayment Date, Redemption Date, sinking fund payment date, Stated Maturity or Maturity, as the case may be.
SECTION 113. No Recourse. No recourse for the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, or interest on any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, and no recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture or in any supplemental indenture, or in any Security or any coupons appertaining thereto, or because of the creation of any indebtedness represented thereby, shall be had against any director, officer, employee, or stockholder as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, either directly or through the Company or any of its Affiliates or any successor Person of the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that all such liability is hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issuance of the Securities.
SECTION 114. Waiver of Jury Trial
. EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE NOTES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
SECTION 115. Force Majeure
. In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE TWO
 
SECURITIES FORMS
SECTION 201. Forms of Securities. The Registered Securities, if any, of each series and the Bearer Securities, if any, of each series and related coupons the temporary global Securities of each series, if any, and the permanent global Securities of each series, if any, shall be in substantially the forms as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officer's Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case in accordance with Section 301 and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities or coupons, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities or coupons. Any portion of the text of any Security may be set forth on the reverse thereof, with an appropriate reference thereto on the face of the Security.
Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities shall have interest coupons attached.
The Trustee's certificate of authentication on all Securities shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article.
The definitive Securities and coupons, if any, shall be printed, lithographed or engraved or produced by any combination of these methods on steel-engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner, all as determined by the Officers of the Company executing such Securities or coupons, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons.
SECTION 202. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. Subject to Section 612, the Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form:
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
Dated: ____________________
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
as Trustee
 
 
 
 
 
By:
                                                                               
SECTION 203. Securities Issuable in Global Form. If Securities of or within a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, then, notwithstanding clause (8) of Section 301 and the provisions of Section 302, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities of such series represented thereby may from time to time be increased or decreased to reflect exchanges. Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee or the Security Registrar in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person or Persons as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304. Subject to the provisions of Section 303 and, if applicable, Section 304, the Trustee or the Security Registrar shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person or Persons specified therein or in the applicable Company Order. If a Company Order pursuant to Section 303 or Section 304 has been, or simultaneously is, delivered, any instructions by the Company with respect to endorsement or delivery or redelivery of a Security in global form shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel.
The provisions of the last sentence of Section 303 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee or the Security Registrar the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby, together with the written statement contemplated by the last sentence of Section 303.
Notwithstanding any provisions of Section 201 or 307 to the contrary, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person or Persons specified therein.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 309 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company and the Trustee shall treat as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security (i) in the case of a permanent global Security in registered form, the Holder of such permanent global Security in registered form, or (ii) in the case of a permanent global Security in bearer form, Euroclear or Clearstream.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE THREE
 
THE SECURITIES
SECTION 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be subordinated in right of payment to Senior Indebtedness as provided in Article Seventeen.
The Securities may be issued in one or more series. There shall be established (i) in one or more Board Resolutions or (ii) pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions and, subject to Section 303, set forth in, or determined in the manner provided in, an Officer's Certificate, or (iii) in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series, any or all of the following, as applicable (each of which (except for the matters set forth in clauses (1), (2) and (15) below), if so provided, may be determined from time to time by the Company with respect to unissued Securities of the series and set forth in such Securities of the series when issued from time to time):
(1)
   
the form and title of the Securities of the series including CUSIP numbers (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other series of Securities);
(2)
   
any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series that may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 304, 305, 306, 906, 1107 or 1405 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder);
(3)
   
the date or dates, or the method by which such date or dates will be determined or extended, on which the principal of the Securities of the series shall be payable;
(4)
   
the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method by which such rate or rates shall be determined, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable, the right, if any, of the Company to defer or extend an Interest Payment Date, and the Regular Record Date, if any, for the interest payable on any Registered Security on any Interest Payment Date, or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, and the basis upon which interest shall be calculated if other than on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months;
(5)
   
the place or places, if any, other than or in addition to the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable (which in the case of Euro Securities shall be outside the United States), where any Registered Securities of the series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of the series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of the series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable and, if different than the location specified in Section
 
 
 
105, the place or places where notices or demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of the series and this Indenture may be served;
(6)
   
the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the Currency or Currencies in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, if the Company is to have that option;
(7)
   
the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repay or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provision or at the option of a Holder thereof, and the period or periods within which or the date or dates on which, the price or prices at which, the Currency or Currencies in which, and other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repaid or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
(8)
   
if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denomination or denominations in which any Registered Securities of the series shall be issuable and, if other than denominations of $5,000, the denomination or denominations in which any Bearer Securities of the series shall be issuable;
(9)
   
if other than the Trustee, the identity of each Security Registrar and/or Paying Agent;
(10)
               
if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series that shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, upon redemption of the Securities of the series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity, upon surrender for repayment at the option of the Holder, or which the Trustee shall be entitled to claim pursuant to Section 504 or the method by which such portion shall be determined;
(11)
               
if other than Dollars, the Currency or Currencies in which payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series shall be made or in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and the particular provisions applicable thereto in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
(12)
               
whether the amount of payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method (which index, formula or method may be based, without limitation, on one or more Currencies, commodities, equity indices or other indices), and the manner in which such amounts shall be determined;
(13)
               
whether the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of the series are to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in one or more Currencies other than that in which such Securities are denominated or stated to be payable, the period or periods within which (including the Election Date), and the terms and conditions upon which, such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the Currency or Currencies in which such Securities
 
 
 
are denominated or stated to be payable and the Currency or Currencies in which such Securities are to be paid, in each case in accordance with, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Section 312;
(14)
               
provisions, if any, granting special rights to the Holders of Securities of the series upon the occurrence of such events as may be specified;
(15)
               
any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Company with respect to Securities of the series, whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein;
(16)
               
whether Securities of the series are to be issuable as Registered Securities, Bearer Securities (with or without coupons) or both, any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of Bearer Securities and the terms upon which Bearer Securities of the series may be exchanged for the Registered Securities of the series and vice versa (if permitted by applicable laws and regulations), whether such Securities of any series are to be issuable initially in temporary global form with or without coupons and whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in permanent global form with or without coupons and, if so, whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 305, whether Registered Securities of the series may be exchanged for Bearer Securities of the series (if permitted by applicable laws and regulations), whether Bearer Securities of the series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the series, and the circumstances under which and the place or places where any such exchanges may be made and if Securities of the series are to be issuable in global form, the identity and any temporary global Security representing Outstanding Securities of any initial depository therefor;
(17)
               
the date as of which any Bearer Securities of the series and any temporary global Security representing Outstanding Securities shall be dated if other than the date of original issuance of the first Security of the series to be issued;
(18)
               
the Person to whom any interest on any Registered Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, the manner in which, or the Person to whom, any interest on any Bearer Security of the series shall be payable, if otherwise than upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto as they severally mature, and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 304; and the extent to which, or the manner in which, any interest payable on a permanent global Security on an Interest Payment Date will be paid if other than in the manner provided in Section 307;
 
 
 
 
 
(19)
               
the applicability, if any, of Sections 1502 and/or 1503 to the Securities of the series and any provisions in modification of, in addition to or in lieu of any of the provisions of Article Fifteen that shall be applicable to the Securities of the Series.
(20)
               
if Securities of the series are to be issuable in definitive form (whether upon original issue or upon exchange of a temporary Security of such series) only upon receipt of certain certificates or other documents or satisfaction of other conditions, the form and/or terms of such certificates, documents or conditions;
(21)
               
whether, under what circumstances and the Currency in which the Company will pay Additional Amounts as contemplated by Section 1007 on the Securities of the series to any Holder who is not a United States Person (including any modification to the definition of such term) in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such Additional Amounts (and the terms of any such option);
(23)
               
if the Securities of the series are to be issued upon the exercise of warrants, the time, manner and place for such Securities to be authenticated and delivered;
(24)
               
if the Securities of the series are to be convertible into or exchangeable for any securities of any Person (including the Company), the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable;
(25)
               
whether the Securities of such series are subject to subordination in right of payment to other Indebtedness of the Company and the terms of such subordination; and
(26)
               
any other terms, conditions, rights and preferences (or limitations on such rights and preferences) relating to the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act or the provisions of this Indenture).
All Securities of any one series and the coupons appertaining to any Bearer Securities of such series shall be substantially identical except, in the case of Registered Securities, as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions (subject to Section 303) and set forth in the Officer's Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. Not all Securities of any one series need be issued at the same time, and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series.
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions or pursuant to authority granted by one or more Board Resolutions, such Board Resolutions shall be delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the issuance of the first Security of such series.
With respect to the Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, the Board Resolution (or action taken pursuant thereto), Officer's Certificate or supplemental indenture
 
 
 
referred to above may provide general terms or parameters for Securities of such series and provide either that the specific terms for particular Securities of such series shall be specified in a Company Order or that such terms shall be determined by the Company in accordance with other procedures specified in a Company Order as contemplated by the third paragraph of Section 303.
SECTION 302. Denominations. The Securities of each series shall be issuable in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. With respect to Securities of any series denominated in Dollars, in the absence of any such provisions, the Registered Securities of such series, other than Registered Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof and the Bearer Securities of such series, other than Bearer Securities issued in global form (which may be of any denomination), shall be issuable in denominations of $5,000.
SECTION 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating. The Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer, its President or one of its Executive Vice Presidents or Vice Presidents, or by its Treasurer or one of its Assistant Treasurers, and attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The signature of any of these officers on the Securities or coupons may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such authorized officer and may be imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
Securities or coupons bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities or coupons.
At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series together with any coupon appertaining thereto, executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; provided, however, that, in the case of Securities offered in a Periodic Offering, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities from time to time in accordance with such other procedures (including, without limitation, the receipt by the Trustee of oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agents, promptly confirmed in writing) acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified by or pursuant to a Company Order delivered to the Trustee prior to the time of the first authentication of Securities of such series; provided further, however, that in connection with its original issuance, no Euro Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States; and provided further that, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301, a Euro Security (other than a Security in temporary global form) may be delivered in connection with its original issuance only if the Person entitled to physical delivery of such Euro Security (which, in the case of a Euro Security to be received in exchange for all or a portion of a Security in temporary global form, shall be the account holder with Euroclear or Clearstream to whose
 
 
 
account all or such portion of such Security in temporary global form has been credited) shall have furnished a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date. If any Security shall be represented by a permanent global Security, then, for purposes of this Section and Section 304, the notation of a beneficial owner's interest therein upon original issuance of such Security or upon exchange of a portion of a temporary global Security shall be deemed to be delivery in connection with its original issuance of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security. Except as permitted by Section 306, the Trustee shall not authenticate and deliver any Bearer Security unless all appurtenant coupons for interest then matured have been detached and cancelled. If not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time and if the Board Resolution, Officer's Certificate pursuant to a Board Resolution, or supplemental indenture establishing such series shall so permit, such Company Order may set forth procedures acceptable to the Trustee for the issuance of such Securities and determining the terms of particular Securities of such series, such as interest rate, stated maturity, date of issuance and date from which interest shall accrue.
In authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to TIA Section 315(a) through 315(d)) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating in effect (subject to customary exceptions):
(a)
          
that the form or forms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
(b)
          
that the terms of such Securities and any coupons have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture, subject, in the case of Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel; and
(c)
          
that such Securities, together with any coupons appertaining thereto, when completed by appropriate insertions and executed and delivered by the Company to the Trustee for authentication in accordance with this Indenture, authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in accordance with this Indenture and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will be the legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms, subject to the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation on all laws relating to fraudulent transfers) and to general principles of equity;
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding two paragraphs, if not all the Securities of any series are to be issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officer's Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the preceding two paragraphs prior to or at the time of issuance of each Security, but such documents shall be delivered prior to or at the time of issuance of the first Security of such series.
 
 
 
 
 
The Trustee shall not be required to authenticate and deliver any such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties, obligations or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee. Notwithstanding the generality of the foregoing, the Trustee will not be required to authenticate Securities denominated in a Foreign Currency if the Trustee reasonably believes that it would be unable to perform its duties with respect to such Securities.
With respect to Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, the Trustee may rely, as to the authorization by the Company of any such Securities, on the form and terms thereof and the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof, upon the Opinion of Counsel and the other documents delivered pursuant to Section 201 and 301 and this Section, as applicable, in connection with the first authentication of Securities of such series.
Each Registered Security shall be dated the date of its authentication and each Bearer Security shall be dated as of the date specified as contemplated by Section 301.
No Security or coupon shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security or Security to which such coupon appertains a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein duly executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized officer, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310 together with a written statement (which need not comply with Section 102 and need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) stating that such Security has never been issued and sold by the Company, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
SECTION 304. Temporary Securities. (a) Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, mimeographed or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued, in registered form or, if authorized, in bearer form with one or more coupons or without coupons, and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as conclusively evidenced by their execution of such Securities or coupons, as the case may be. Such temporary Securities may be in global form.
Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of the following paragraphs), if temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such
 
 
 
series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series (accompanied by any unmatured coupons appertaining thereto), the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a like principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations; provided, however, that no definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Registered Security; and provided further that a definitive Bearer Security shall be delivered in exchange for a temporary Bearer Security only in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 303. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, this Section 304(b) shall govern the exchange of temporary Securities issued in global form. If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein, be delivered to the London office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary"), for the benefit of Euroclear and Clearstream, for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
Without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the date specified in, or determined pursuant to the terms of, any such temporary global Security (the "Exchange Date"), the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities, in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such temporary global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the Exchange Date such temporary global Security shall be surrendered by the Common Depositary to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, or to the Security Registrar, to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities without charge and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such temporary global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such temporary global Security to be exchanged. The definitive Securities to be delivered in exchange for any such temporary global Security shall be in bearer form, registered form, permanent global bearer form or permanent global registered form, or any combination thereof, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, and, if any combination thereof is so specified, as requested by the beneficial owner thereof; provided, however, that, unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, upon such presentation by the Common Depositary, such temporary global Security is accompanied by a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Euroclear as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged and a certificate dated the Exchange Date or a subsequent date and signed by Clearstream as to the portion of such temporary global Security held for its account then to be exchanged, each in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301); and provided further that definitive Bearer Securities shall be delivered in exchange for a portion of a temporary global Security only in compliance with the requirements of Section 303.
 
 
 
 
 
Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, the interest of a beneficial owner of Securities of a series in a temporary global Security shall be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor following the Exchange Date when the account holder instructs Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, to request such exchange on his behalf and delivers to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Exchange Date, copies of which certificate shall be available from the offices of Euroclear and Clearstream, the Trustee, any Authenticating Agent appointed for such series of Securities and each Paying Agent. Unless otherwise specified in such temporary global Security, any such exchange shall be made free of charge to the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security, except that a Person receiving definitive Securities must bear the cost of insurance, postage, transportation and the like in the event that such Person does not take delivery of such definitive Securities in person at the offices of Euroclear or Clearstream. Definitive Securities in bearer form to be delivered in exchange for any portion of a temporary global Security shall be delivered only outside the United States.
Until exchanged in full as hereinabove provided, the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor authenticated and delivered hereunder, except that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, interest payable on a temporary global Security on an Interest Payment Date for Securities of such series occurring prior to the applicable Exchange Date shall be payable to Euroclear and Clearstream on such Interest Payment Date upon delivery by Euroclear and Clearstream to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent of a certificate or certificates in the form set forth in Exhibit A-2 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301), for credit without further interest thereon on or after such Interest Payment Date to the respective accounts of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of such temporary global Security on such Interest Payment Date and who have each delivered to Euroclear or Clearstream, as the case may be, a certificate dated no earlier than 15 days prior to the Interest Payment Date occurring prior to such Exchange Date in the form set forth in Exhibit A-1 to this Indenture (or in such other form as may be established pursuant to Section 301). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained, the certifications made pursuant to this paragraph shall satisfy the certification requirements of the preceding two paragraphs of this Section and of the third paragraph of Section 303 of this Indenture and the interests of the Persons who are the beneficial owners of the temporary global Security with respect to which such certification was made will be exchanged for definitive Securities of the same series and of like tenor on the Exchange Date or the date of certification if such date occurs after the Exchange Date, without further act or deed by such beneficial owners. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, no payments of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, owing with respect to a beneficial interest in a temporary global Security will be made unless and until such interest in such temporary global Security shall have been exchanged for an interest in a definitive Security. Any interest so received by Euroclear and Clearstream and not paid as herein provided shall be returned to the Trustee or the applicable Paying Agent immediately prior to the expiration of two years after such Interest Payment Date in order to be repaid to the Company in accordance with (but otherwise subject to) Section 1003.
SECTION 305. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange. The Company or the Trustee shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or in
 
 
 
any office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment a register for each series of Securities (the registers maintained in the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes referred to collectively as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Registered Securities and of transfers of Registered Securities; provided, however, that there shall be only one Security Register per series of Securities. The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed as the "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Registered Securities and transfers of Registered Securities as herein provided. In the event that the Trustee shall cease to be Security Registrar, it shall have the right to examine the Security Register at all reasonable times.
Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of any series at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee, one or more new Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, having a number not contemporaneously outstanding and containing identical terms and provisions.
At the option of the Holder, Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Registered Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination or denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, containing identical terms and provisions, upon surrender of the Registered Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Registered Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Registered Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities as contemplated by Section 301, Bearer Securities may not be issued in exchange for Registered Securities.
If (but only if) expressly permitted in or pursuant to the applicable Board Resolution and (subject to Section 303) set forth in the applicable Officer's Certificate, or in any indenture supplemental hereto, delivered as contemplated by Section 301, at the option of the Holder, Bearer Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of the same series of any authorized denomination and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Bearer Securities to be exchanged at any such office or agency, with all unmatured coupons (except as provided below) and with all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining. If the Holder of a Bearer Security is unable to produce any such unmatured coupon or coupons or matured coupon or coupons in default, any such permitted exchange may be effected if the Bearer Securities are accompanied by payment in funds acceptable to the Company in an amount equal to the face amount of such missing coupon or coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there is furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which such a payment shall have been made, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount of such payment; provided, however, that, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, interest represented by coupons shall be
 
 
 
payable only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons at an office or agency located outside the United States. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at any such office or agency in a permitted exchange for a Registered Security of the same series and like tenor after the close of business at such office or agency on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, and interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph. If any beneficial owner of an interest in a permanent global Security is entitled to exchange such interest for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified as contemplated by Section 301 and provided that any applicable notice provided in the permanent global Security shall have been given, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interest may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee or the Security Registrar definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such beneficial owner's interest in such permanent global Security, executed by the Company. On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, in accordance with instructions given by the Company to the Trustee or the Security Registrar and the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be (which instructions shall be in writing but need not comply with Section 102 or be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel), such permanent global Security shall be surrendered from time to time by the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be, or such other depositary as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, or to the Security Registrar to be exchanged, in whole or from time to time in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in exchange for each portion of such permanent global Security, an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which, unless the Securities of the series are not issuable both as Bearer Securities and as Registered Securities, in which case the definitive Securities exchanged for the permanent global Security shall be issuable only in the form in which the Securities are issuable, as specified as contemplated by Section 301, shall be in the form of Bearer Securities or Registered Securities, or any combination thereof, as shall be specified by the beneficial owner thereof; provided, however, that no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before any selection of Securities to be redeemed and ending on the relevant Redemption Date if
 
 
 
the Security for which exchange is requested may be among those selected for redemption; and provided, further, that no Bearer Security delivered in exchange for a portion of a permanent global Security shall be mailed or otherwise delivered to any location in the United States. Promptly following any such exchange in part, such permanent global Security shall be returned by the Trustee or the Security Registrar to the Common Depositary or the U.S. Depositary, as the case may be, or such other depositary referred to above in accordance with the Company's instructions. If a Registered Security is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on (i) any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, or (ii) any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, interest or Defaulted Interest, as the case may be, will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, in respect of such Registered Security, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date or proposed date for payment, as the case may be, only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
Every Registered Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company or the Security Registrar) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar, duly executed by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 304, 906, 1107 or 1405 not involving any transfer.
If at any time the Depositary for any permanent global Registered Securities of any series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities or if at any time the Depositary for such permanent global Registered Securities shall no longer be eligible under applicable law, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law with respect to such permanent global Registered Securities. If a successor Depositary eligible under applicable law for such Registered Global Securities is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver such definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
 
 
 
 
 
The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that any permanent global Registered Securities of any series shall no longer be maintained in global form. In such event the Company will execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of the Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor, will authenticate and deliver, definitive Registered Securities of such series and tenor in any authorized denominations, in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Registered Securities, in exchange for such permanent global Registered Securities.
The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the selection for redemption of Securities of that series to be redeemed under Section 1103 or 1203 and ending at the close of business on (A) if Securities of the series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the day of the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption and (B) if Securities of the series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the day of the first publication of the relevant notice of redemption or, if Securities of the series are also issuable as Registered Securities and there is no publication, the mailing of the relevant notice of redemption, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Registered Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part, or (iii) to exchange any Bearer Security so selected for redemption except that such a Bearer Security may be exchanged for a Registered Security of that series and like tenor; provided that such Registered Security shall be simultaneously surrendered for redemption, or (iv) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security which has been surrendered for repayment at the option of the Holder, except the portion, if any, of such Security not to be so repaid.
The Trustee shall have no obligation or duty to monitor, determine or inquire as to compliance with any restrictions on transfer that may be imposed under this Indenture with respect to the Securities of any series pursuant to the terms thereof established as contemplated by Section 301 or under applicable law with respect to any transfer of any interest in any such Security (including any transfers between or among any depositary (including any U.S. Depositary or Common Depositary), or its nominee, as a Holder of a Security issued in global form, any participants in such depositary or owners or holders of beneficial interests in any such global Security) other than to require delivery of such certificates and other documentation or evidence as are expressly required by, and to do so if and when expressly required by, the terms of such Securities if and as may be so established in respect of such Securities, and to examine the same to determine substantial compliance as to form with the express requirements thereof.
SECTION 306. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities and Coupons. If any mutilated Security or a Security with a mutilated coupon appertaining to it is surrendered to the Trustee, together with, in proper cases, such security or indemnity as may be required by the Trustee to save it or any agent of it harmless, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount, containing identical terms and provisions and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to the surrendered Security.
 
 
 
 
 
If there shall be delivered to the Company and to the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security or coupon and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security or coupon has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall, subject to the following paragraph, execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for the Security for which a destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains (with all appurtenant coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen), a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount, containing identical terms and provisions and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the previous two paragraphs, in case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or coupon has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, with coupons corresponding to the coupons, if any, appertaining to such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or to the Security to which such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, pay such Security or coupon, as the case may be; provided, however, that payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Bearer Securities shall, except as otherwise provided in Section 1002, be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, any interest on Bearer Securities shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the coupons appertaining thereto.
Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith.
Every new Security of any series with its coupons, if any, issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or in exchange for a Security to which a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security and its coupons, if any, or the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series and their coupons, if any, duly issued hereunder.
The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons.
SECTION 307. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved; Optional Interest Reset. (a) Except as otherwise specified with respect to a series of Securities in accordance with the provisions of Section 301, interest, if any, on any Registered Security that is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in
 
 
 
whose name such Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; provided, however, that each installment of interest, if any, on any Registered Security may at the Company's option be paid by (i) mailing a check for such interest, payable to or upon the written order of the Person entitled thereto pursuant to Section 309, to the address of such Person as it appears on the Security Register or (ii) transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to the Securities of any series, payment of interest, if any, may be made, in the case of a Bearer Security, by transfer to an account maintained by the payee with a bank located outside the United States.
Unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301, every permanent global Security will provide that interest, if any, payable on any Interest Payment Date will be paid to each of any U.S. Depositary, and/or to each of Euroclear and Clearstream with respect to that portion of such permanent global Security held for its account by the Common Depositary, for the purpose of permitting such U.S. Depositary and/or each of Euroclear and Clearstream to credit the interest, if any, received by it in respect of such permanent global Security for the accounts of the beneficial owners thereof.
In the case that a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered in exchange for a Registered Security of such series after the close of business (at an office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series) on any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business (at such office or agency) on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such Interest Payment Date and interest will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such Bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
Any interest on any Registered Security of any series that is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date ("Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in clause (1) or (2) below:
(1)
   
The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Registered Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment (which shall not be less than 20 days after such notice is received by the Trustee), and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of
 
 
 
such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit on or prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be given in the manner provided in Section 106, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so given, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose name the Registered Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following clause (2). In case a Bearer Security of any series is surrendered at the office or agency in a Place of Payment for such series in exchange for a Registered Security of such series after the close of business at such office or agency on any Special Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the related proposed date for payment of Defaulted Interest, such Bearer Security shall be surrendered without the coupon relating to such proposed date of payment and Defaulted Interest will not be payable on such proposed date of payment in respect of the Registered Security issued in exchange for such bearer Security, but will be payable only to the Holder of such coupon when due in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
(2)
   
The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Registered Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
(b)
   
The provisions of this Section 307(b) may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) on any Security of such series may be reset by the Company on the date or dates specified on the face of such Security (each an "Optional Reset Date"). The Company may exercise such option with respect to such Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to an Optional Reset Date for such Security. Not later than 40 days prior to each Optional Reset Date, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of any such Security a notice (the "Reset Notice") indicating whether the Company has elected to reset the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable), and if so (i) such new interest rate (or such new spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) and (ii) the provisions, if any, for redemption during the period from such Optional Reset Date to the next Optional Reset Date or if there is no such next Optional Reset Date, to the Stated Maturity Date of such Security (each such period a "Subsequent Interest Period"), including the date or dates on which or the
 
 
 
period or periods during which and the price or prices at which such redemption may occur during the Subsequent Interest Period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days prior to the Optional Reset Date, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice and establish an interest rate (or a spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) that is higher than the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) provided for in the Reset Notice, for the Subsequent Interest Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable) to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the interest rate (or the spread or spread multiplier used to calculate such interest rate, if applicable) is reset on an Optional Reset Date, and with respect to which the Holders of such Securities have not tendered such Securities for repayment (or have validly revoked any such tender) pursuant to the next succeeding paragraph, will bear such higher interest rate (or such higher spread or spread multiplier, if applicable).
The Holder of any such Security will have the option to elect repayment by the Company of the principal of such Security on each Optional Reset Date at a price equal to the principal amount thereof plus interest accrued to such Optional Reset Date. In order to obtain repayment on an Optional Reset Date, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Fourteen for repayment at the option of Holders except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to such Optional Reset Date and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to the Reset Notice, the Holder may, by written notice to the Trustee, revoke such tender or repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before such Optional Reset Date.
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section and Section 305, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security.
SECTION 308. Optional Extension of Stated Maturity. The provisions of this Section 308 may be made applicable to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 301 (with such modifications, additions or substitutions as may be specified pursuant to such Section 301). The Stated Maturity of any Security of such series may be extended at the option of the Company for the period or periods specified on the face of such Security (each an "Extension Period") up to but not beyond the date (the "Final Maturity") set forth on the face of such Security. The Company may exercise such option with respect to any Security by notifying the Trustee of such exercise at least 50 but not more than 60 days prior to the Stated Maturity of such Security in effect prior to the exercise of such option (the "Original Stated Maturity"). If the Company exercises such option, the Trustee shall transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, to the Holder of such Security not later than 40 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity a notice (the "Extension Notice") indicating (i) the election of the Company to extend the Stated Maturity, (ii) the new Stated Maturity, (iii) the interest rate, if any, applicable to the Extension Period and (iv) the provisions, if any, for redemption during such Extension Period. Upon the Trustee's transmittal of the Extension Notice, the Stated Maturity of such Security
 
 
 
shall be extended automatically and, except as modified by the Extension Notice and as described in the next paragraph, such Security will have the same terms as prior to the transmittal of such Extension Notice.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, not later than 20 days before the Original Stated Maturity of such Security, the Company may, at its option, revoke the interest rate provided for in the Extension Notice and establish a higher interest rate for the Extension Period by causing the Trustee to transmit, in the manner provided for in Section 106, notice of such higher interest rate to the Holder of such Security. Such notice shall be irrevocable. All Securities with respect to which the Stated Maturity is extended will bear such higher interest rate.
If the Company extends the Stated Maturity of any Security, the Holder will have the option to elect repayment of such Security by the Company on the Original Stated Maturity at a price equal to the principal amount thereof, plus interest accrued to such date. In order to obtain repayment on the Original Stated Maturity once the Company has extended the Stated Maturity thereof, the Holder must follow the procedures set forth in Article Fourteen for repayment at the option of Holders, except that the period for delivery or notification to the Trustee shall be at least 25 but not more than 35 days prior to the Original Stated Maturity and except that, if the Holder has tendered any Security for repayment pursuant to an Extension Notice, the Holder may by written notice to the Trustee revoke such tender for repayment until the close of business on the tenth day before the Original Stated Maturity.
SECTION 309. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Registered Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Registered Security is registered as the owner of such Registered Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Sections 305 and 307) interest, if any, on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
Title to any Bearer Security and any coupons appertaining thereto shall pass by delivery. The Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the bearer of any Bearer Security and the bearer of any coupon as the absolute owner of such Security or coupon for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security or coupons be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests of a Security in global form or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. The Company, the Trustee and the Security Registrar shall be entitled to deal with any depositary (including any U.S. Depositary or Common Depositary), and any nominee thereof, that is the Holder of any such global Security for all purposes of this Indenture relating to such global Security (including the payment of principal, premium, if any, and interest and Additional
 
 
 
Amounts, if any, and the giving of instructions or directions by or to the owner or holder of a beneficial ownership interest in such global Security) as the sole Holder of such global Security and shall have no obligations to the beneficial owners thereof. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar shall have any responsibility or liability for any acts or omissions of any such depositary with respect to such global Security, for the records of any such depositary, including records in respect of beneficial ownership interests in respect of any such global Security, for any transactions between such depositary and any participant in such depositary or between or among any such depositary, any such participant and/or any holder or owner of a beneficial interest in such global Security or for any transfers of beneficial interests in any such global Security.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any global Security, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee, or any agent of the Company or the Trustee, from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by any depositary (including any U.S. Depositary or Common Depositary), as a Holder, with respect to such global Security or impair, as between such depositary and owners of beneficial interests in such global Security, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of such depositary (or its nominee) as Holder of such global Security.
SECTION 310. Cancellation. All Securities and coupons surrendered for payment, redemption, repayment at the option of the Holder, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities and coupons so surrendered or delivered to the Trustee shall be promptly cancelled by it. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly cancelled by the Trustee. If the Company shall so acquire any of the Securities, however, such acquisition shall not operate as a redemption or satisfaction of the indebtedness represented by such Securities unless and until the same are surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities cancelled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All cancelled Securities and coupons held by the Trustee shall be disposed of by the Trustee in accordance with its customary procedures and, if requested by the Company, certification of their disposal delivered to the Company, unless by Company Order the Company shall timely direct that cancelled Securities be returned to it.
SECTION 311. Computation of Interest. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to Securities of any series, interest, if any, on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
SECTION 312. Currency and Manner of Payments in Respect of Securities. (a) Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, with respect to Registered Securities of any series not permitting the election provided for in paragraph (b) below or the Holders of which have not made the election provided for in paragraph (b) below,
 
 
 
and with respect to Bearer Securities of any series, except as provided in paragraph (d) below, payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Registered or Bearer Security of such series will be made in the Currency in which such Registered Security or Bearer Security, as the case may be, is payable. The provisions of this Section 312 may be modified or superseded with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301.
(b)
   
It may be provided pursuant to Section 301 with respect to Registered Securities of any series that Holders shall have the option, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) below, to receive payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on such Registered Securities in any of the Currencies which may be designated for such election by delivering to the Trustee for such series of Registered Securities a written election with signature guarantees and in the applicable form established pursuant to Section 301, not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the applicable payment date. If a Holder so elects to receive such payments in any such Currency, such election will remain in effect for such Holder or any transferee of such Holder until changed by such Holder or such transferee by written notice to the Trustee for such series of Registered Securities (but any such change must be made not later than the close of business on the Election Date immediately preceding the next payment date to be effective for the payment to be made on such payment date and no such change of election may be made with respect to payments to be made on any Registered Security of such series with respect to which an Event of Default has occurred or with respect to which the Company has deposited funds pursuant to Article Four or Fifteen or with respect to which a notice of redemption has been given by the Company or a notice of option to elect repayment has been sent by such Holder or such transferee). Any Holder of any such Registered Security who shall not have delivered any such election to the Trustee of such series of Registered Securities not later than the close of business on the applicable Election Date will be paid the amount due on the applicable payment date in the relevant Currency as provided in Section 312(a). The Trustee for each such series of Registered Securities shall notify the Exchange Rate Agent as soon as practicable after the Election Date of the aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities for which Holders have made such written election.
(c)
   
Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, not later than the fourth Business Day after the Election Date for each payment date for Registered Securities of any series, the Exchange Rate Agent will deliver to the Company a written notice specifying the Currency in which Registered Securities of such series are payable, the respective aggregate amounts of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Registered Securities to be paid on such payment date, specifying the amounts in such Currency so payable in respect of the Registered Securities as to which the Holders of Registered Securities of such series shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above. If the election referred to in paragraph (b) above has been provided for pursuant to Section 301 and if at least one Holder has made such election, then, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, on the second Business Day preceding such payment date the Company will deliver to the Trustee for such series of Registered Securities an Exchange Rate Officer's Certificate in respect of the Dollar or Foreign Currency payments to be made on such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar or Foreign Currency amount receivable by Holders of Registered Securities who have elected payment in a Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above shall be determined by the Company
 
 
 
on the basis of the applicable Market Exchange Rate in effect on the second Business Day (the "Valuation Date") immediately preceding each payment date, and such determination shall be conclusive and binding for all purposes, absent manifest error.
(d)
   
If a Conversion Event occurs with respect to a Foreign Currency in which any of the Securities are denominated or payable other than pursuant to an election provided for pursuant to paragraph (b) above, then with respect to each date for the payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the applicable Securities denominated or payable in such Foreign Currency occurring after the last date on which such Foreign Currency was used (the "Conversion Date"), the Dollar shall be the Currency of payment for use on each such payment date. Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, the Dollar amount to be paid by the Company to the Trustee and by the Trustee or any Paying Agent to the Holders of such Securities with respect to such payment date shall be, in the case of a Foreign Currency other than a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency or, in the case of a currency unit, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, in each case as determined by the Exchange Rate Agent in the manner provided in paragraph (f) or (g) below.
(e)
   
Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if the Holder of a Registered Security denominated in any Currency shall have elected to be paid in another Currency as provided in paragraph (b) above, and a Conversion Event occurs with respect to such elected Currency, such Holder shall receive payment in the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election; and if a Conversion Event occurs with respect to the Currency in which payment would have been made in the absence of such election, such Holder shall receive payment in Dollars as provided in paragraph (d) of this Section 312.
(f)
    
The "Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and shall be obtained for each subsequent payment date by converting the specified Foreign Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate on the Conversion Date.
(g)
   
The "Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit" shall be determined by the Exchange Rate Agent and subject to the provisions of paragraph (h) below shall be the sum of each amount obtained by converting the Specified Amount of each Component Currency into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate for such Component Currency on the Valuation Date with respect to each payment.
(h)
   
For purposes of this Section 312, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
A "Component Currency" shall mean any Currency which, on the Conversion Date, was a component currency of the relevant currency unit.
A "Specified Amount" of a Component Currency shall mean the number of units of such Component Currency or fractions thereof which were represented in the relevant currency unit, on the Conversion Date. If after the Conversion Date the official unit of any Component Currency is altered by way of combination or subdivision, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be divided or multiplied in the same proportion. If after the Conversion Date two or more Component Currencies are
 
 
 
consolidated into a single currency, the respective Specified Amounts of such Component Currencies shall be replaced by an amount in such single Currency equal to the sum of the respective Specified Amounts of such consolidated Component Currencies expressed in such single Currency, and such amount shall thereafter be a Specified Amount and such single Currency shall thereafter be a Component Currency. If after the Conversion Date any Component Currency shall be divided into two or more currencies, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall be replaced by amounts of such two or more currencies, having an aggregate Dollar Equivalent value at the Market Exchange Rate on the date of such replacement equal to the Dollar Equivalent value of the Specified Amount of such former Component Currency at the Market Exchange Rate immediately before such division and such amounts shall thereafter be Specified Amounts and such currencies shall thereafter be Component Currencies. If, after the Conversion Date of the relevant currency unit, a Conversion Event (other than any event referred to above in this definition of "Specified Amount") occurs with respect to any Component Currency of such currency unit and is continuing on the applicable Valuation Date, the Specified Amount of such Component Currency shall, for purposes of calculating the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, be converted into Dollars at the Market Exchange Rate in effect on the Conversion Date of such Component Currency.
"Election Date" shall mean the Regular Record Date for the applicable series of Registered Securities or at least 16 days prior to Maturity, as the case may be, or such other prior date for any series of Registered Securities as specified pursuant to clause (13) of Section 301 by which the written election referred to in Section 312 (b) may be made.
All decisions and determinations of the Exchange Rate Agent regarding the Dollar Equivalent of the Foreign Currency, the Dollar Equivalent of the Currency Unit, the Market Exchange Rate and changes in the Specified Amounts as specified above shall be in its sole discretion and shall, in the absence of manifest error, be conclusive for all purposes and irrevocably binding upon the Company, the Trustee for the appropriate series of Securities and all Holders of such Securities denominated or payable in the relevant Currency. The Exchange Rate Agent shall promptly give written notice to the Company and the Trustee for the appropriate series of Securities of any such decision or determination.
In the event that the Company determines in good faith that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to a Foreign Currency, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee for the appropriate series of Securities and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and the Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided for in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date. In the event the Company so determines that a Conversion Event has occurred with respect to any currency unit in which Securities are denominated or payable, the Company will immediately give written notice thereof to the Trustee of the appropriate series of Securities and to the Exchange Rate Agent (and such Trustee will promptly thereafter give notice in the manner provided in Section 106 to the affected Holders) specifying the Conversion Date and the Specified Amount of each Component Currency on the Conversion Date. In the event the Company determines in good faith that any subsequent change in any Component Currency as set forth in the definition of Specified Amount above has occurred, the Company will similarly give written notice to the Trustee of the appropriate series of Securities and the Exchange Rate Agent. The Trustee of the appropriate
 
 
 
series of Securities shall be fully justified and protected in relying and acting upon information received by it from the Company and the Exchange Rate Agent and shall not otherwise have any duty or obligation to determine the accuracy or validity of such information independent of the Company or the Exchange Rate Agent.
SECTION 313. Appointment and Resignation of Successor Exchange Rate Agent. (a) Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of this Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent. The Company will cause the Exchange Rate Agent to make the necessary foreign exchange determinations at the time and in the manner specified pursuant to Section 301 for the purpose of determining the applicable rate of exchange and, if applicable, for the purpose of converting the issued Currency into the applicable payment Currency for the payment of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, pursuant to Section 312.
(b)
   
No resignation of the Exchange Rate Agent and no appointment of a successor Exchange Rate Agent pursuant to this Section shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Exchange Rate Agent as evidenced by a written instrument delivered to the Company and the Trustee of the appropriate series of Securities accepting such appointment executed by the successor Exchange Rate Agent.
(c)
   
If the Exchange Rate Agent shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of the Exchange Rate Agent for any cause with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Exchange Rate Agent or Exchange Rate Agents with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Exchange Rate Agent may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, at any time there shall only be one Exchange Rate Agent with respect to the Securities of any particular series that are originally issued by the Company on the same date and that are initially denominated and/or payable in the same Currency).
SECTION 314. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP", "CINS" or "ISIN" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall indicate the respective "CUSIP", "CINS" or "ISIN" numbers of the Securities in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders;
provided
that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers. The Company shall advise the Trustee as promptly as practicable in writing of any change in the CUSIP, CINS or ISIN numbers.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE FOUR
 
SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE
SECTION 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. Except as set forth below, this Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Request (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities of such series expressly provided for herein or pursuant hereto, any surviving rights of tender for repayment at the option of the Holders and any right to receive Additional Amounts as contemplated by Section 1007) and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order and at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series when
(A)
         
all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered and all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto (other than (i) coupons appertaining to Bearer Securities surrendered for exchange for Registered Securities and maturing after such exchange, whose surrender is not required or has been waived as provided in Section 305, (ii) Securities and coupons of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 306, (iii) coupons appertaining to Securities called for redemption and maturing after the relevant Redemption Date, whose surrender has been waived as provided in Section 1106, and (iv) Securities and coupons of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust with the Trustee or any Paying Agent or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
(B)
         
all Securities of such series and, in the case of (i) or (ii) below, any coupons appertaining thereto not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation
(ii)
          
will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or
(iii)
        
if redeemable at the option of the Company, are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
and the Company, in the case of (i), (ii) or (iii) above, has irrevocably deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for such purpose , solely for the benefit of the Holders, an amount in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable, sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities and such coupons not theretofore delivered to the
 
 
 
Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be;
(2)
   
the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
(3)
   
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series have been complied with.
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 606, the obligations of the Trustee to any Authenticating Agent under Section 612 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402 and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive such satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture.
SECTION 402. Application of Trust Money. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities, the coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, for whose payment such money has been deposited with or received by the Trustee; but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. Money so held in trust (i) is not subject to Article Seventeen and (ii) is subject to the Trustee's rights under Section 606.
ARTICLE FIVE
 
REMEDIES
SECTION 501. Events of Default. "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body), unless it is either inapplicable to a particular series or is specifically deleted or modified in or pursuant to the supplemental indenture, Officer's Certificate or a Board Resolution establishing such series of Securities or is in the form of Security for such series:
(1)
   
default in the payment of any interest on any Security of that series, or any related coupon, when such interest or coupon becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or
(2)
   
default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of that series at its Maturity; or
 
 
 
 
 
(3)
   
default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or agreement of the Company in this Indenture which affects or is applicable to the Securities of that series (other than a default in the performance, or breach of a covenant or agreement which is specifically dealt with elsewhere in this Section) or which has expressly been included in this Indenture solely for the benefit of a series of Securities other than that series, and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 60 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of that series a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or
(4)
   
the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company as bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 90 consecutive days; or
(5)
   
the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under the Federal Bankruptcy Code or any other applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of any such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator (or other similar official) of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or
(6)
   
any other Event of Default provided pursuant to Section 301 or 901 with respect to Securities of that series.
SECTION 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment. If an Event of Default described in clause (1), (2), (3), or (6) of Section 501 with respect to Securities of any series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series may, and the Trustee at the request of such Holders shall, declare immediately due and payable, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders) the unpaid principal (or, if the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities, such
 
 
 
portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series) of (and premium, if any) and accrued interest in respect of any Security then Outstanding in that series (the "Default Amount"). Upon any such declaration, the Default Amount shall become immediately due and payable on all Outstanding Securities of that series. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 502, if an Event of Default in Sections 501(4) or 501(5) occurs, then the Default Amount shall ipso facto become and be immediately due and payable without any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder.
At any time after a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of any series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter provided in this Article, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if
(A)
         
all overdue interest, if any, on all Outstanding Securities of that series and any related coupons,
(B)
         
all unpaid principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Outstanding Securities of that series which has become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration, and interest on such unpaid principal at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities,
(C)
         
to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest on overdue interest, if any, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and
(D)
         
all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and
(2)
   
all Events of Default with respect to Securities of that series, other than the non-payment of amounts of principal of (or premium, if any, on) or interest on Securities of that series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon.
SECTION 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee. The Company covenants that if
(1)
   
default is made in the payment of any installment of interest on any Security and any related coupon when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or
(2)
   
default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof,
 
 
 
 
 
then the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to the Trustee (such demand and payment in the case of Euro Securities to occur only outside of the United States) for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and coupons, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, and interest on any overdue principal (and premium, if any) and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, upon any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel.
If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy.
SECTION 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of the pendency of any receivership, insolvency, liquidation, bankruptcy, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment, composition or other judicial proceeding relative to the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or the property of the Company or of such other obligor or their creditors, the Trustee (irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand on the Company for the payment of overdue principal, premium, if any, or interest) shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise,
(i)
           
to file and prove a claim for the whole amount of principal (and premium, if any), or such portion of the principal amount of any series of Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities as may be specified in the terms of such series, and interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel) and of the Holders allowed in such judicial proceeding, and
(ii)
          
to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same (which distribution, in the case of Euro Securities, shall occur only outside the United States);
 
 
 
 
 
and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator (or other similar official) in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 606.
Subject to Article Eight and Section 902 and unless otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301, nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
SECTION 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities or Coupons. All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities or coupons may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or coupons or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities and coupons in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
SECTION 506. Application of Money Collected. Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, upon presentation of the Securities or coupons, or both, as the case may be (such presentation, in the case of Euro Securities or coupons, to occur only outside the United States), and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid:
First: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee (including any predecessor Trustee) under Section 606;
Second: Subject to Article 16, to the payment (such payment, in the case of Euro Securities, to occur only outside the United States) of the amounts then due and unpaid upon the Securities and coupons for principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities and coupons in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities and coupons for principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, respectively; and
Third: To the payment of the balance, if any, to the Person or Persons designated in writing by the Company.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 507. Limitation on Suits. No Holder of any Security of any series or any related coupons shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless
(1)
   
such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series;
(2)
   
the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series, shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder;
(3)
   
such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request;
(4)
   
the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and
(5)
   
no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series;
it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders.
SECTION 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security or coupon shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment, as provided herein (including, if applicable, Article Fifteen) or in such Security, of the principal of (and premium, if any) and (subject to Section 307) interest, if any, on, such Security or payment of such coupon on the respective Stated Maturities expressed in such Security or coupon (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date or, in the case of repayment at the option of the Holders on the Repayment Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder.
SECTION 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities or coupons in the last paragraph of Section 306, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy.
SECTION 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Security or coupon to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be.
SECTION 512. Control by Holders. With respect to the Securities of any series, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that:
(2)
   
the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and
(3)
   
the Trustee may refuse to take any action which, in the Opinion of Counsel to the Trustee, is unduly prejudicial to other Holders of Securities of such series not consenting or would subject the Trustee to personal liability.
SECTION 513. Waiver of Past Defaults. Subject to Section 502, the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series and any related coupons waive any past default hereunder with respect to Securities of such series and its consequences, except a default
(1)
   
in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security or any related coupons, or
(2)
   
in respect of a provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
Upon any such waiver, any such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 514. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted.
ARTICLE SIX
 
THE TRUSTEE
SECTION 601. Notice of Defaults. Within 90 days after the occurrence of any Default hereunder with respect to the Securities of any series, the Trustee shall transmit in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, notice of such Default hereunder known to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, unless such Default shall have been cured or waived; provided, however, that, except in the case of a Default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of such series or in the payment of any sinking fund installment with respect to Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons; and provided further that in the case of any Default of the character specified in Section 501(3) with respect to Securities of such series, no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof.
SECTION 602. Certain Duties, Responsibilities and Rights of Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Sections 315(a) through 315(d) of the Trust Indenture Act:
(1)
   
the Trustee may rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
(2)
   
any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order (other than delivery of any Security, together with any coupons appertaining thereto, to the Trustee for authentication and delivery pursuant to Section 303 which shall be sufficiently evidenced as provided therein), and any resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution;
(3)
   
whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may,
 
 
 
in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon a Board Resolution, an Opinion of Counsel or an Officer's Certificate;
(4)
   
the Trustee may consult with counsel of its own selection and the written advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon;
(5)
   
the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee reasonable security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction;
(6)
   
the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee in good faith shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled upon reasonable notice and at reasonable times during normal business hours to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
(7)
   
the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents, attorneys, custodians, or nominees and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent, attorney, custodian, or nominee appointed with due care by it hereunder;
(8)
   
the Trustee shall not be deemed to know or be charged with knowledge of any Default or Event of Default with respect to the Securities of any series for which it is acting as Trustee unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received written notice thereof at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee from the Company or a Holder of such Securities and such notice references this Indenture and such Securities; and
(9)
   
in the event that the Trustee is also acting as Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in any other capacity hereunder, the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits afforded to the Trustee pursuant to this Article Six, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, shall also be afforded to the Trustee in its capacity as such Paying Agent, Security Registrar or in such other capacity.
The Trustee shall not be required to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
 
 
 
 
Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section 602.
SECTION 603. Trustee Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except for the Trustee's certificates of authentication, and in any coupons shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities or coupons, except that the Trustee represents that it is duly authorized to execute and deliver this Indenture, authenticate the Securities and perform its obligations hereunder and that the statements made by it in a Statement of Eligibility on Form T-1 supplied to the Company are true and accurate, subject to the qualifications set forth therein. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
SECTION 604. May Hold Securities. The Trustee, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar, any Authenticating Agent or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and coupons and, subject to Sections 310(b) and 311 of the Trust Indenture Act, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Paying Agent, Security Registrar, Authenticating Agent or such other agent.
SECTION 605. Money Held in Trust. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed with the Company or for the investment thereof.
SECTION 606. Compensation, Indemnification and Reimbursement. The Company agrees:
(1)
   
to pay to the Trustee from time to time reasonable compensation for all services rendered by it hereunder as has been agreed upon from time to time in writing (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust);
(2)
   
except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its willful misconduct, negligence or bad faith; and
(3)
   
to indemnify the Trustee and any predecessor trustee and its and their officers, directors, employees, and agents for, and to hold it or them harmless against, any loss, liability, claim, damage, or expense incurred without negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct on its or their part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or
 
 
 
administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses (including reasonable fees and expenses of counsel) of defending itself or themselves against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its or their powers or duties hereunder.
As security for the performance of such obligations of the Company, the Trustee shall have a claim prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on particular Securities or any coupons.
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or (6), the expenses (including reasonable charges and expense of its counsel) of and the compensation for such services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or State bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the termination of this Indenture for any reason and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
SECTION 607. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility. There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be eligible to act as Trustee under Section 310(a)(1) of the Trust Indenture Act and shall have a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of Federal, State, Territorial or District of Columbia supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article.
SECTION 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests. If the Trustee has or shall acquire a conflicting interest within the meaning of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall either eliminate such interest or resign, to the extent and in the manner provided by, and subject to the provisions of, the Trust Indenture Act and this Indenture.
SECTION 609. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 610.
(b)
   
Subject to Section 609(a) hereof, the Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 610 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
   
The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any series by (i) the Company, by an Officer's Certificate delivered to the Trustee, provided that contemporaneously therewith (x) the Company immediately appoints a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series meeting the requirements of Section 607 hereof and (y) the terms of Section 610 hereof are complied with in respect of such appointment (the Trustee being removed hereby agreeing to execute the instrument contemplated by Section 610(b) hereof, if applicable, under such circumstances) and
provided
further that no Default with respect to such Securities shall have occurred and then be continuing at such time or (ii) Act of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company.
(1)
   
the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of Section 310(b) of the Trust Indenture Act after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(2)
   
the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 607 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or
(3)
   
the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
then, in any such case, (i) the Company, by or pursuant to an Officer's Certificate, may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 315(e) of the Trust Indenture Act, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees.
(e)
   
If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or Officer's Certificate shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series). If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the
 
 
 
Holders and accepted appointment in the manner hereinafter provided, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months, or the retiring Trustee, may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series.
(f)
    
The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to the Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided for in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office.
SECTION 610. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder, subject nevertheless to its claim provided for in Section 606.
(b)
   
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees as co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money
 
 
 
held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, subject nevertheless to its claim provided for in Section 606. Whenever there is a successor Trustee with respect to one or more (but less than all) series of securities issued pursuant to this Indenture, the terms "Indenture" and "Securities" shall have the meanings specified in the provisos to the respective definitions of those terms in Section 101 which contemplate such situation.
(c)
   
Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, as the case may be.
(d)
   
No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article.
SECTION 611. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any Person into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such Person shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. In case any of the Securities shall not have been authenticated by such predecessor Trustee, any successor Trustee may authenticate such Securities either in the name of any predecessor hereunder or in the name of the successor Trustee. In all such cases such certificates shall have the full force and effect which this Indenture provides for the certificate of authentication of the Trustee; provided, however, that the right to adopt the certificate of authentication of any predecessor Trustee or to authenticate Securities in the name of any predecessor Trustee shall apply only to its successor or successors by merger, conversion or consolidation.
SECTION 612. Appointment of Authenticating Agent. At any time when any of the Securities remain Outstanding, the Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents which may be an Affiliate or Affiliates of the Company with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series and the Trustee shall give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Any such appointment shall be evidenced by an instrument in writing signed by a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, and a copy of such instrument shall be promptly furnished to the Company. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating
 
 
 
Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a bank or trust company or corporation organized and doing business and in good standing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by Federal or State authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section.
Any Person into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any Person resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any Person succeeding to the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such Person shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent.
An Authenticating Agent for any series of Securities may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee for such series and to the Company. The Trustee for any series of Securities may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee for such series may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall promptly give written notice of such appointment to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, in the manner provided for in Section 106. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this Section.
The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section.
If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternate certificate of authentication in the following form:
Dated: ____________________
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
 
 
By ______________________________
 
 
By ______________________________
ARTICLE SEVEN
 
HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY
SECTION 701. Disclosure of Names and Addresses of Holders. Every Holder of Securities or coupons, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that none of the Company or the Trustee or any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders in accordance with Section 312 of the Trust Indenture Act, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under Section 312(b).
SECTION 701.5
Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders
. (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
(b)
          
The rights of Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and duties of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act.
SECTION 702. Reports by Trustee. Within 60 days after March 15 of each year commencing with the first March 15 after the first issuance of Securities pursuant to this Indenture, the Trustee shall transmit to the Holders of Securities, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, a brief report dated as of such March 15 if required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee when Securities are listed on any stock exchange and of any delisting thereof.
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities are listed, with the Commission, and with the Company.
SECTION 703. Reports by Company. The Company shall:
 
 
 
 
 
(1)
   
file with the Trustee, within 15 days after the Company is required to file the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act;
(2)
   
file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants of this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and
(3)
   
transmit to all Holders, in the manner and to the extent provided in Section 313(c) of the Trust Indenture Act, within 30 days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officer's Certificates).
SECTION 704. Calculation of Original Issue Discount. Upon reasonable request of the Trustee, the Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods), if any, accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of such year.
ARTICLE EIGHT
 
CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE
SECTION 801. Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms(a)
   
. The Company may not consolidate or merge with or into another corporation, or sell or convey all or substantially all of their respective property and assets to another Person unless: (i) immediately after such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing; (ii) the surviving Person in such consolidation or merger (if other than the Company) or Person to whom such property and assets are sold or conveyed (if other than the Company) is a corporation organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, and such Person (if other than the Company) through a supplemental indenture assumes payment of the principal of (premium, if any, on) and interest on, the Outstanding Securities of the applicable series and the performance and observance of all the covenants and conditions of this Indenture with respect to the Company, and (iii) the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance and such supplemental indenture comply with the applicable provisions of the Indenture and that all conditions precedent therein provided for relating to such
 
 
 
consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance have been complied with. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may consolidate or merge with or into, or sell or convey all or substantially all of its property and assets to any Subsidiary.
SECTION 802. Successor Person Substituted. Upon any consolidation by the Company with or merger by the Company into any other Person or any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to any Person in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such sale or conveyance is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and in the event of any such sale or conveyance, the Company (which term shall for this purpose mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this Indenture or any successor Person which shall theretofore become such in the manner described in Section 801), shall be discharged of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto, and may be dissolved or liquidated.
ARTICLE NINE
 
SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES
SECTION 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders. Unless otherwise specified in Section 902, without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form reasonably satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes:
(1)
   
to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company contained herein and in the Securities; or
(2)
   
to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities and any related coupons (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or
(3)
   
to add any additional Events of Default (and if such Events of Default are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such Events of Default are being included solely for the benefit of such series); provided, however, that in respect of any such additional Events of Default, such supplemental indenture may provide for a particular period of grace after default (which period may be shorter or longer than that allowed in the case of other defaults) or may provide for an immediate enforcement upon such default or may limit the remedies available to the Trustee upon such default or may limit the right of the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of that or those series of Securities to which such additional Events of Default apply to waive such default; or
 
 
 
 
 
(4)
   
to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to provide that Bearer Securities may be registrable as to principal, to change or eliminate any restrictions on the payment of principal of or any premium or interest on Bearer Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Registered Securities, to permit Bearer Securities to be issued in exchange for Bearer Securities of other authorized denominations or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series or any related coupons in any material respect; or
(5)
   
to change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture; provided that any such change or elimination shall become effective only when there is no Security Outstanding of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture which is entitled to the benefit of such provision; or
(6)
   
to secure the Securities pursuant to the requirements of Section 1009 or otherwise; or
(7)
   
to establish the form or terms of Securities and any related coupons of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or
(8)
   
to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee; or
(9)
   
to cure any ambiguity, to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be inconsistent with any other provision herein, or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of any series and any related coupons in any material respect; or
(10)
               
to supplement any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the defeasance and discharge of any series of Securities pursuant to Sections 401, 1502 and 1503; provided that any such action shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons or any other series of Securities in any material respect.
SECTION 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of all Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture which affect such series of Securities or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series and any related coupons under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall,
 
 
 
without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of each such series affected thereby,
(1)
   
change the Stated Maturity of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) or any installment of principal of or interest on any Security, or change the terms of any sinking fund with respect to any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest, if any, thereon, or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or repayment thereof at the option of the Holder, or change any obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts contemplated by Section 1007 (except as contemplated by Section 801(1) and permitted by Section 901(1)), or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or upon the redemption thereof or the amount thereof provable in bankruptcy pursuant to Section 504, or adversely affect any right of repayment at the option of the Holder of any Security, or change any Place of Payment where, or the Currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption or repayment at the option of the Holder, on or after the Redemption Date or Repayment Date, respectively) or modify the provisions of this Indenture with respect to the mandatory redemption of Securities or repayment of the Securities at the option of the Holder in a manner adverse to any Holder of any Securities or any coupons appertaining thereto, or adversely affect any right to convert or exchange any Security as may be provided pursuant to Section 301 herein, or
(2)
   
reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver with respect to such series of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences provided for in this Indenture, or
(3)
   
modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1011, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture which affect such series cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby;
provided
,
however
, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder of a Security or coupon with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 610(b) and 901(8), or
(4)
   
modify any of the provisions of this Indenture relating to the subordination of Securities in a manner adverse to any Holders.
It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof.
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of
 
 
 
such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to consent to any indenture supplemental hereto. If a record date is fixed, the Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to consent to such supplemental indenture, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date;
provided
that unless such consent shall have become effective by virtue of the requisite percentage having been obtained prior to the date which is 90 days after such record date, any such consent previously given shall automatically and without further action by any Holder be cancelled and of no further effect.
SECTION 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall be provided with, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
SECTION 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith, and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby.
SECTION 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act. Every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act as then in effect.
SECTION 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures. Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered (which delivery, in the case of Euro Securities, shall occur only outside the United States) by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series.
SECTION 907. Notice of Supplemental Indentures. Promptly after the execution by the Company and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of Section 902, the Trustee shall give notice thereof to the Holders of each Outstanding Security affected, in the manner provided for in Section 106, setting forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 908. Effect on Senior Indebtedness. No supplemental indenture shall materially adversely affect the rights of any holder of Senior Indebtedness under Article Seventeen without the consent of such holder.
 
ARTICLE TEN
 
COVENANTS
SECTION 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium, if any, and Interest. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of the Holders of each series of Securities and any related coupons that it will duly and punctually pay, in the Currency or Currencies in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series), the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of that series in accordance with the terms of the Securities, any coupons appertaining thereto and this Indenture. Unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, any interest due on Bearer Securities on or before Maturity shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the respective coupons for such interest installments.
SECTION 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency. If the Securities of a series are issuable only as Registered Securities, the Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for such series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served.
If Securities of a series are issuable as Bearer Securities, the Company will maintain (A) in The City of New York, an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible or exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable, where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served and where Bearer Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented or surrendered for payment in the circumstances described in the following paragraph (and not otherwise) (B) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series which is located outside the United States, an office or agency where Securities of that series and related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment; provided, however, that, if the Securities of that series are listed on any stock exchange located outside the United States and such stock exchange shall so require, the Company will maintain a Paying Agent for the Securities of that series in any required city located outside the United States so long as the Securities of that series are listed on such exchange, and (C) subject to any laws or regulations applicable thereto, in a Place of Payment for that series located outside the United States an office or agency where any Registered Securities of that series may be surrendered for
 
 
 
registration of transfer, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for exchange, where Securities of that series that are convertible and exchangeable may be surrendered for conversion or exchange, as applicable and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served.
The Company will give prompt notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, except that Bearer Securities of any series and the related coupons may be presented and surrendered for payment at the offices specified in the Security, and the Company hereby appoints the same as its agents to receive such respective presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, no payment of principal, premium, if any, or interest on Bearer Securities shall be made at any office or agency of the Company in the United States or by check mailed to any address in the United States or by transfer to an account maintained with a financial institution located in the United States; provided, however, that, if the Securities of a series are payable in Dollars, payment of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on any Bearer Security (including Additional Amounts payable on Securities of such series pursuant to Section 1007) shall be made at the office of the Company's Paying Agent in The City of New York, if (but only if) payment in Dollars of the full amount of such principal, premium, interest or Additional Amounts, as the case may be, at all offices or agencies outside the United States maintained for such purpose by the Company in accordance with this Indenture is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind any such designation; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in accordance with the requirements set forth above for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities, the Company hereby designates as a Place of Payment for each series of Securities the office or agency of the Trustee in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and initially appoints the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office as Paying Agent in such city and as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Securities pursuant to Section 301, if and so long as the Securities of any series (i) are denominated in a Currency other than Dollars or (ii) may be payable in a Currency other than Dollars, or so long as it is required under any other provision of the Indenture, then the Company will maintain with respect to each such series of Securities, or as so required, at least one Exchange Rate Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust. If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on Securities of such series so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities and any related coupons, it will, prior to or on each due date of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum (in the Currency described in the preceding paragraph) sufficient to pay the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities (other than the Trustee) to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will:
(1)
   
hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided;
(2)
   
give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of such series) in the making of any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Securities of such series; and
(3)
   
at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent.
The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the same trusts as those upon which sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such sums.
Except as provided in the Securities of any series, any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security of any series, or any coupon appertaining thereto, and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal, premium or
 
 
 
interest has become due and payable shall, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security or coupon shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, unless otherwise required by mandatory provisions of applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property law, look only to the Company for payment thereof, and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof, shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such Paying Agent, before being required to make any such repayment, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in each Place of Payment, notice that such money remains unclaimed and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than 30 days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
SECTION 1004. Corporate Existence. Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if its Board of Directors shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of its business.
SECTION 1005. Maintenance of Principal Properties. The Company will cause all Principal Properties used or useful in the conduct of its business or the business of a Restricted Subsidiary of the Company to be maintained and kept in good condition, repair and working order and supplied with all necessary equipment and will cause to be made all necessary repairs, renewals, replacements, betterments and improvements thereof, all as in the judgment of the Company may be necessary so that the business carried on in connection therewith may be properly and advantageously conducted at all times; provided, however, that nothing in this Section shall prevent the Company from discontinuing the maintenance of any of such properties or prevent or restrict the sale, abandonment or other disposition of any of such properties if such action is, in the judgment of the Company, desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and its Subsidiaries as a whole.
SECTION 1006. Payment of Taxes and Other Claims. The Company will pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged, before the same shall become delinquent, (a) all material taxes, assessments and governmental charges levied or imposed upon the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company or upon the income, profits or property of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company, and (b) all material lawful claims for labor, materials and supplies which, if unpaid, might by law become a Lien upon the property of the Company or any Subsidiary of the Company; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to pay or discharge or cause to be paid or discharged any such tax, assessment, charge or claim whose amount, applicability or validity is being contested in good faith.
SECTION 1007. Additional Amounts. If any Securities of a series provide for the payment of additional amounts to any Holder who is not a United States Person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge ("Additional Amounts"), the Company will pay to the Holder of any Security of such series or any coupon appertaining thereto such Additional Amounts as may be specified as contemplated by Section 301. Whenever in this Indenture there
 
 
 
is mentioned, in any context, the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on, or in respect of, any Security of a series or payment of any related coupon or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of any Security of a series, such mention shall be deemed to include mention of the payment of Additional Amounts provided for by the terms of such series established pursuant to Section 301 to the extent that, in such context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable in respect thereof pursuant to such terms and express mention of the payment of Additional Amounts (if applicable) in any provisions hereof shall not be construed as excluding Additional Amounts in those provisions hereof where such express mention is not made.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, if the Securities of a series provide for the payment of Additional Amounts, at least 10 days prior to the first Interest Payment Date with respect to that series of Securities (or if the Securities of that series will not bear interest prior to Maturity, the first day on which a payment of principal (and premium, if any) is made), and at least 10 days prior to each date of payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest if there has been any change with respect to the matters set forth in the below-mentioned Officer's Certificate, the Company will furnish the Trustee and the Company's principal Paying Agent or Paying Agents, if other than the Trustee, with an Officer's Certificate instructing the Trustee and such Paying Agent or Paying Agents whether such payment of principal of (and premium, if any, on) or interest on the Securities of that series shall be made to Holders of Securities of that series or any related coupons who are not United States Persons without withholding for or on account of any tax, assessment or other governmental charge described in the Securities of the series. If any such withholding shall be required, then such Officer's Certificate shall specify by country the amount, if any, required to be withheld on such payments to such Holders of Securities of that series or related coupons and the Company will pay to the Trustee or such Paying Agent the Additional Amounts required by the terms of such Securities. In the event that the Trustee or any Paying Agent, as the case may be, shall not so receive the above-mentioned certificate, then the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall be entitled (i) to assume that no such withholding or deduction is required with respect to any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Securities of a series or related coupons until it shall have received a certificate advising otherwise and (ii) to make all payments of principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Securities of a series or related coupons without withholding or deductions until otherwise advised. The Company covenants to indemnify the Trustee and any Paying Agent for, and to hold them harmless against, any loss, liability or expense reasonably incurred without negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith on their part arising out of or in connection with actions taken or omitted by any of them in reliance on any Officer's Certificate furnished pursuant to this Section; provided that this sentence shall survive the termination of this Indenture and the earlier resignation or removal of the Trustee.
SECTION 1008. Statement as to Compliance. (a) The Company shall deliver to the Trustee, within 120 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof so long as any Security is Outstanding hereunder, an Officer's Certificate, stating that in the course of the performance by the signatory of his or her duties as such officer of the Company, they would normally obtain knowledge of any Default by the Company in the performance or fulfillment of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Indenture, and stating whether or not they have obtained knowledge of any such Default existing on the date of such
 
 
 
statement and, if so, specifying each such Default of which the signatory has knowledge and the nature thereof.
(b)
          
The Company will, so long as any of the Securities of any series are Outstanding, deliver to the Trustee, as promptly as practicable upon any officer listed in (a) above becoming aware of any Default, Event of Default or default in the performance of any covenant, agreement or condition contained in this Indenture, an Officer's Certificate specifying such Default, Event of Default, default or event of default and what action the Company is taking or proposes to take with respect thereto and the status thereof.
SECTION 1009. Limitation on Liens. The Company shall not create, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on any of its property or assets, without securing the Securities of any applicable series equally and ratably with (or prior to) such secured Indebtedness; provided, however, that the foregoing shall apply only to Liens which in the aggregate exceed 15% of the Company's total consolidated assets as of the end of the Company's most recent accounting period preceding the creation or assumption of any such Lien (reduced by any Attributable Debt with respect to any Sale and Leaseback Transaction permitted under Section 1010 below). This restriction will not apply to Capitalized Leases or to Indebtedness secured by (a) Liens existing on the date hereof and Liens on property of, or Indebtedness of, any Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary (whether by acquisition or otherwise, including through merger or consolidation), (b) Liens in favor of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company, (c) Liens existing at the time of acquisition of the assets secured thereby (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) and purchase money Liens, and (d) any extension, renewal, replacement or refunding of any Lien referred to in the foregoing clauses (a) through (c), inclusive.
SECTION 1010. Limitation on Sale and Leaseback Transactions. The Company shall not, and shall not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction with respect to any Principal Property unless (a) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction involves a lease for a term of not more than three years; (b) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is between the Company and a Subsidiary of the Company or between Subsidiaries of the Company; (c) the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary would be entitled to incur indebtedness secured by a Lien on such Principal Property involved in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction at least equal in amount to the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction pursuant to the first sentence of the "Limitations on Liens" covenant in Section 1009 above without being required to equally and ratably secure the Securities of any applicable series pursuant to such covenant; (d) the proceeds of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction are at least equal to the fair market value of such Principal Property (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company) and the Company applies an amount equal to the greater of the net proceeds of such sale or the Attributable Debt with respect to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction within 180 days of such sale to either (or a combination) of (i) the retirement (other than the mandatory retirement, mandatory prepayment or sinking fund payment or by payment at maturity) of debt for borrowed money of the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company that matures more than 12 months after its creation (other than debt that is subordinated to the Securities or debt to the Company or a Subsidiary of the Company) or (ii) the purchase, construction or development of other comparable property; or (e) such Sale and Leaseback Transaction is entered into within 180 days after the initial acquisition by the
 
 
 
Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, of the Principal Property subject to such Sale and Leaseback Transaction
SECTION 1011. Waiver of Certain Covenants. With respect to the Securities of any series, the Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition specified pursuant to Section 301 as being subject to this Section 1011, if, before the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such wavier shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect.
ARTICLE ELEVEN
 
REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES
SECTION 1101. Applicability of Article. Securities of any series which are redeemable before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1102. Election to Redeem; Notice to Trustee. The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by an Officer's Certificate. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date and of the principal amount of Securities to be redeemed and shall deliver to the Trustee such documentation and records as shall enable the Trustee to select the Securities to be redeemed pursuant to Section 1103. In the case of any redemption of Securities prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officer's Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction.
SECTION 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed. If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate; provided that such method complies with the rules of any national securities exchange or quotation system on which the Securities are then listed, and which may provide for the selection for redemption of portions of the principal of Securities of such series; provided, however, that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security not redeemed to less than the minimum authorized denomination for Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 301.
 
 
 
 
 
The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company and the Security Registrar (if other than itself) in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed.
For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Security redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Security which has been or is to be redeemed.
SECTION 1104. Notice of Redemption. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, notice of redemption shall be given in the manner provided for in Section 106 not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, but failure to give such notice in the manner herein provided to the Holder of any Security designated for redemption as a whole or in part, or any defect in the notice to any such Holder, shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for redemption of any other such Security or portion thereof.
Any notice that is mailed to the Holders of Registered Securities in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives the notice.
Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, all notices of redemption shall state:
(2)
   
the Redemption Price (if known) or the formula pursuant to which the Redemption Price is to be determined if the Redemption Price cannot be determined at the time the notice is given,
(3)
   
if less than all the Outstanding Securities of any series are to be redeemed, the identification (and, in the case of partial redemption, the principal amounts) of the particular Securities to be redeemed,
(4)
   
in case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice which relates to such Security shall state that on and after the Redemption Date, upon surrender of such Security, the Holder will receive, without charge, a new Security or Securities of authorized denominations for the principal amount thereof remaining unredeemed,
(5)
   
that on the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date payable as provided in Section 1106 will become due and payable upon each such Security, or the portion thereof, to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date,
(6)
   
the Place or Places of Payment where such Securities, together in the case of Bearer Securities with all coupons appertaining thereto, if any, maturing after the Redemption Date, are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any,
 
 
 
 
 
(8)
   
that, unless otherwise specified in such notice, Bearer Securities of any series, if any, surrendered for redemption must be accompanied by all coupons maturing subsequent to the Redemption Date or the amount of any such missing coupon or coupons will be deducted from the Redemption Price unless security or indemnity satisfactory to the Company, the Trustee for such series and any Paying Agent is furnished,
(9)
   
if Bearer Securities of any series are to be redeemed and any Registered Securities of such series are not to be redeemed, and if such Bearer Securities may be exchanged for Registered Securities not subject to redemption on such Redemption Date pursuant to Section 305 or otherwise, the last date, as determined by the Company, on which such exchanges may be made, and
A notice of redemption published as contemplated by Section 106 need not identify particular Registered Securities to be redeemed.
Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company.
SECTION 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price. On or prior to any Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date.
SECTION 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) (together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date), and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest, if any) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be redeemed, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that installments of interest on Bearer Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the
 
 
 
Redemption Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of coupons for such interest; and provided further that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest on Registered Securities whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
If any Bearer Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Redemption Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the Redemption Price an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made from the Redemption Price, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; provided, however, that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons.
If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal thereof (and premium, if any) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in such Security.
SECTION 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part. Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part (pursuant to the provisions of this Article or of Article Twelve) shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or such Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. If a temporary global Security or permanent global Security is so surrendered, such new Security so issued shall be a new temporary global Security or permanent global Security, respectively. However, if less than all the Securities of any series with differing issue dates, interest rates and stated maturities are to be redeemed, the Company in its sole discretion shall select the particular Securities to be redeemed and shall notify the Trustee in writing thereof at least 45 days prior to the relevant redemption date.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE TWELVE
 
SINKING FUNDS
SECTION 1201. Applicability of Article. Retirement of Securities of any series pursuant to any sinking fund shall be made in accordance with the terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article.
The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any mandatory sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series.
SECTION 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities. Subject to Section 1203, in lieu of making all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to any Securities of a series in cash, the Company may at its option (1) deliver to the Trustee Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) theretofore purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company, together, in the case of any Bearer Securities of such series, with all unmatured coupons appertaining thereto, and/or (2) receive credit for the principal amount of Securities of such series which have been previously delivered to the Trustee by the Company or for Securities of such series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any mandatory sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of the same series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided, however, that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such mandatory sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly.
SECTION 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund. Not less than 60 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering or crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 (which Securities will, if not previously delivered, accompany such certificate) and whether the Company intends to exercise its right to make a permitted optional sinking fund payment with respect to such series. Such certificate shall be irrevocable and upon its delivery the Company shall be obligated to make the cash payment or payments therein referred to, if any,
 
 
 
on or before the next succeeding sinking fund payment date. In the case of the failure of the Company to deliver such certificate, the sinking fund payment due on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date for that series shall be paid entirely in cash and shall be sufficient to redeem the principal amount of such Securities subject to a mandatory sinking fund payment without the option to deliver or credit Securities as provided in Section 1202 and without the right to make any optional sinking fund payment, if any, with respect to such series.
Not more than 60 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107.
Prior to any sinking fund payment date, the Company shall pay to the Trustee or a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) in cash a sum equal to the principal (and premium, if any) and any interest that will accrue to the date fixed for redemption of Securities or portions thereof to be redeemed on such sinking fund payment date pursuant to this Section 1203.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a sinking fund for any series of Securities, if at any time the amount of cash to be paid into such sinking fund on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date, together with any unused balance of any preceding sinking fund payment or payments for such series, does not exceed in the aggregate $100,000, the Trustee, unless requested by the Company, shall not give the next succeeding notice of the redemption of Securities of such series through the operation of the sinking fund. Any such unused balance of moneys deposited in such sinking fund shall be added to the sinking fund payment for such series to be made in cash on the next succeeding sinking fund payment date or, at the request of the Company, shall be applied at any time or from time to time to the purchase of Securities of such series, by public or private purchase, in the open market or otherwise, at a purchase price for such Securities (excluding accrued interest and brokerage commissions, for which the Trustee or any Paying Agent will be reimbursed by the Company) not in excess of the principal amount thereof.
ARTICLE THIRTEEN
 
[RESERVED]
 
ARTICLE FOURTEEN
 
REPAYMENT AT OPTION OF HOLDERS
SECTION 1401. Applicability of Article. Repayment of Securities of any series before their Stated Maturity at the option of Holders thereof shall be made in accordance with the
 
 
 
terms of such Securities and (except as otherwise specified by the terms of such series established pursuant to Section 301) in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1402. Repayment of Securities. Securities of any series subject to repayment in whole or in part at the option of the Holders thereof will, unless otherwise provided in the terms of such Securities, be repaid at the Repayment Price thereof, together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to the Repayment Date specified in or pursuant to the terms of such Securities. The Company covenants that on or before the Repayment Date it will deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the Currency in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series and except, if applicable, as provided in Sections 312(b), 312(d) and 312(e)) sufficient to pay the Repayment Price of and (except if the Repayment Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest, if any, on, all the Securities or portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid on such date.
SECTION 1403. Exercise of Option. Securities of any series subject to repayment at the option of the Holders thereof will contain an "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Securities. To be repaid at the option of the Holder, any Security so providing for such repayment, with the "Option to Elect Repayment" form on the reverse of such Security duly completed by the Holder (or by the Holder's attorney duly authorized in writing), must be received by the Company at the Place of Payment therefor specified in the terms of such Security (or at such other place or places of which the Company shall from time to time notify the Holders of such Securities) not earlier than 45 days nor later than 30 days prior to the Repayment Date. If less than the entire Repayment Price of such Security is to be repaid in accordance with the terms of such Security, the portion of the Repayment Price of such Security to be repaid, and the denomination or denominations of the Security or Securities to be issued to the Holder for the portion of the Repayment Price of such Security surrendered that is not to be repaid, must be specified. Any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof may not be repaid in part if, following such repayment, the unpaid principal amount of such Security would be less than the minimum authorized denomination of Securities of the series of which such Security to be repaid is a part. Except as otherwise may be provided by the terms of any Security providing for repayment at the option of the Holder thereof, exercise of the repayment option by the Holder shall be irrevocable unless waived by the Company.
SECTION 1404. When Securities Presented for Repayment Become Due and Payable. If Securities of any series providing for repayment at the option of the Holders thereof shall have been surrendered as provided in this Article and as provided by or pursuant to the terms of such Securities, such Securities or the portions thereof, as the case may be, to be repaid shall become due and payable and shall be paid by the Company on the Repayment Date therein specified, and on and after such Repayment Date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities on such Repayment Date) such Securities shall, if the same were interest-bearing, cease to bear interest and the coupons for such interest appertaining to any Bearer Securities so to be repaid, except to the extent provided below, shall be void. Upon surrender of any such Security for repayment in accordance with such provisions, together with all coupons, if any, appertaining thereto maturing after the Repayment Date, the Repayment Price of such Security so to be repaid shall be paid by the Company, together with accrued
 
 
 
interest, if any, to the Repayment Date; provided, however, that coupons whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of such coupons; and provided further that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, in the case of Registered Securities, installments of interest, if any, whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Repayment Date shall be payable (but without interest thereon, unless the Company shall default in the payment thereof) to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 307.
If any Bearer Security surrendered for repayment shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the Repayment Date, such Security may be paid after deducting from the amount payable therefor as provided in Section 1402 an amount equal to the face amount of all such missing coupons, or the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee if there be furnished to them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them and any Paying Agent harmless. If thereafter the Holder of such Security shall surrender to the Trustee or any Paying Agent any such missing coupon in respect of which a deduction shall have been made as provided in the preceding sentence, such Holder shall be entitled to receive the amount so deducted; provided, however, that interest represented by coupons shall be payable only at an office or agency located outside the United States (except as otherwise provided in Section 1002) and, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, only upon presentation and surrender of those coupons.
If the principal amount of any Security surrendered for repayment shall not be so repaid upon surrender thereof, such principal amount (together with interest, if any, thereon accrued to such Repayment Date) shall, until paid, bear interest from the Repayment Date at the rate of interest or Yield to Maturity (in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities) set forth in such Security.
SECTION 1405. Securities Repaid in Part. Upon surrender of any Registered Security which is to be repaid in part only, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder of such Security, without service charge and at the expense of the Company, a new Registered Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination specified by the Holder, in an aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the portion of the principal of such Security so surrendered which is not to be repaid. If a temporary global Security or permanent global Security is so surrendered, such new Security so issued shall be a new temporary global Security or a new permanent global Security, respectively.
ARTICLE FIFTEEN
 
DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE
SECTION 1501. Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any
 
 
 
series, the provisions of this Article Fifteen shall apply to each series of Securities, and the Company may, at its option, effect defeasance of the Securities of or within a series under Section 1502, or covenant defeasance of or within a series under Section 1503 in accordance with the terms of such Securities and in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1502. Defeasance and Discharge. Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series and subject to Sections 1505 and 1506, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to such Outstanding Securities of such series and any related coupons on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1504 are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire Indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and any related coupons, which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of Section 1505 and the other Sections of this Indenture referred to in (A) and (B) below, and to have satisfied all of its other obligations under such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture insofar as such Securities and any related coupons are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1504 and as more fully set forth in such Section, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Securities and any related coupons when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 304, 305, 306, 1002 and 1003 and with respect to the payment of Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities as contemplated by Section 1007, and such obligations as shall be ancillary thereto, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities and other provisions in respect of the Trustee hereunder including, without limitation, Section 606, the last sentence of Section 1007, and the penultimate paragraph of Section 1505 and (D) this Article Fifteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Fifteen, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1502 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1503 with respect to such Securities and any related coupons. Following a defeasance, payment of the Securities of such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default.
SECTION 1503. Covenant Defeasance. Upon the Company's exercise of the above option applicable to this Section with respect to any Securities of or within a series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 801 and 802, Section 1006 and Sections 1008 through 1011, and, if specified pursuant to Section 301, its obligations under any other covenant, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on and after the date the conditions set forth in Section 1504 are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and such Securities and any related coupons shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with such covenants, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such covenant, whether directly or indirectly, by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such covenant or by reason of reference in any such covenant
 
 
 
to any other provision herein or in any other document and such omission to comply shall not constitute a Default or an Event of Default under Section 501(3) or Section 501(6) or otherwise, as the case may be, but, except as specified above, the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be unaffected thereby. Following a covenant defeasance, payment of the Securities of such series may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default solely by reference to such Sections specified above in this Section 1503.
SECTION 1504. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The following shall be the conditions precedent or, as specifically noted below, subsequent, to application of either Section 1502 or Section 1503 to any Outstanding Securities of or within a series and any related coupons:
(1)
   
The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 607 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Fifteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons, (A) money in an amount (in such Currency in which such Securities and any related coupons are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity), or (B) Government Obligations applicable to such Securities (determined on the basis of the Currency in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Stated Maturity) which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee), to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the Stated Maturity (or Redemption Date, if applicable) of such principal (and premium, if any) or installment of interest on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture, the Securities of such series and the coupons, if any, appertaining thereto, and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and of such Securities and any related coupons; provided that the Trustee shall have been irrevocably instructed to apply such money or the proceeds of such Government Obligations to said payments with respect to such Securities and any related coupons. Before such a deposit, the Company may give to the Trustee, in accordance with Section 1102 hereof, a notice of its election to redeem all or any portion of such Outstanding Securities at a future date in accordance with the terms of the Securities of such series and Article Eleven hereof, which notice shall be irrevocable. Such irrevocable redemption notice, if given, shall be given effect in applying the foregoing.
(2)
   
No Default or Event of Default with respect to such Securities or any related coupons shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as paragraphs (4) and (5) of Section 501 are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
 
 
 
 
(3)
   
Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not (A) cause the Trustee for the Securities of such series to have a conflicting interest as defined in TIA Section 310(b) or otherwise for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any securities of the Company or (B) result in the trust arising from such deposit to constitute, unless it is qualified as, a regulated investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(4)
   
Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(5)
   
In the case of an election under Section 1502, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of execution of this Indenture, there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of the deposit and such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such defeasance had not occurred.
(6)
   
In the case of an election under Section 1503, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if the deposit and such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
(7)
   
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Section, such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional or substitute terms, conditions or limitations in connection therewith pursuant to Section 301.
(8)
   
The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1502 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1503 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
SECTION 1505. Deposited Money and Government Obligations to Be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and Government Obligations (or other property as may be provided pursuant to Section 301) (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee, collectively for purposes of this Section 1505, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1504 in respect of such Outstanding Securities and any related coupons shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and any related coupons and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of
 
 
 
principal (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
Unless otherwise specified with respect to any Security pursuant to Section 301, if, after a deposit referred to in Section 1504(1) has been made, (a) the Holder of a Security in respect of which such deposit was made is entitled to, and does, elect pursuant to Section 312(b) or the terms of such Security to receive payment in a Currency other than that in which the deposit pursuant to Section 1504(1) has been made in respect of such Security, or (b) a Conversion Event occurs as contemplated in Section 312(d) or 312(e) or by the terms of any Security in respect of which the deposit pursuant to Section 1504(1) has been made, the indebtedness represented by such Security and any related coupons shall be deemed to have been, and will be, fully discharged and satisfied through the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on such Security as they become due out of the proceeds yielded by converting (from time to time as specified below in the case of any such election) the amount or other property deposited in respect of such Security into the Currency in which such Security becomes payable as a result of such election or Conversion Event based on the applicable Market Exchange Rate for such Currency in effect on the third Business Day prior to each payment date, except, with respect to a Conversion Event, for such Currency in effect (as nearly as feasible) at the time of the Conversion Event.
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the money or Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1504 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof.
Anything in this Article Fifteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or Government Obligations (or other property and any proceeds therefrom) held by it as provided in Section 1504 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance, as applicable, in accordance with this Article.
SECTION 1506. Reinstatement. If the Trustee or any Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1505 with respect to any Securities by reason of any order or judgment of any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such application, then the Company's obligations under this Indenture and such Securities and any related coupons shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to Section 1502 or 1503, as the case may be, until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1505; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any such Security or any related coupon following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities and any related coupons to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or Paying Agent.
 
 
 
 
 
ARTICLE SIXTEEN
 
MEETINGS OF HOLDERS OF SECURITIES
SECTION 1601. Purposes for Which Meetings May Be Called. A meeting of Holders of Securities of any and all series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to this Article to make, give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided by this Indenture to be made, given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series.
SECTION 1602. Call, Notice and Place of Meetings. (a) The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series for any purpose specified in Section 1601, to be held at such time and at such place in The City of New York as the Trustee shall determine. Notice of every meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, setting forth the time and the place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given, in the manner provided for in Section 106, not less than 21 nor more than 180 days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.
(b)
   
In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least 33 1/3% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of the Holders of Securities of such series for any purpose specified in Section 1601, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have made the first publication or mailing of the notice of such meeting within 21 days after receipt of such request or shall not thereafter proceed to cause the meeting to be held as provided herein, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified, as the case may be, may determine the time and the place in The City of New York or in London for such meeting and may call such meeting for such purposes by giving notice thereof as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
SECTION 1603. Persons Entitled to Vote at Meetings. To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series, a Person shall be (1) a Holder of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series, or (2) a Person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy for a Holder or Holders of one or more Outstanding Securities of such series by such Holder or Holders. The only Persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be the Persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel, any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
SECTION 1604. Quorum; Action. The Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series shall constitute a quorum for a meeting of Holders of Securities of such series; provided, however, that, if any action is to be taken at such meeting with respect to a consent, waiver, request, demand, notice, authorization, direction or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be given by the Holders of not less than a specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series, the Persons entitled to vote such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall constitute a quorum. In the absence of a quorum within 30 minutes
 
 
 
of the time appointed for any such meeting, the meeting shall, if convened at the request of Holders of Securities of such series, be dissolved. In any other case the meeting may be adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such meeting. In the absence of a quorum at any such adjourned meeting, such adjourned meeting may be further adjourned for a period of not less than 10 days as determined by the chairman of the meeting prior to the adjournment of such adjourned meeting. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in Section 1602(a), except that such notice need be given only once not less than five days prior to the date on which the meeting is scheduled to be reconvened. Notice of the reconvening of any adjourned meeting shall state expressly the percentage, as provided above, of the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall constitute a quorum.
Except as limited by the proviso to the first paragraph of Section 902, any resolution presented to a meeting or adjourned meeting duly reconvened at which a quorum is present as aforesaid may be adopted by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series; provided, however, that, except as limited by the proviso to the first paragraph of Section 902, any resolution with respect to any consent, waiver, request, demand, notice, authorization, direction, or other action which this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage, which is less than a majority, in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of a series may be adopted at a meeting or an adjourned meeting duly reconvened and at which a quorum is present as aforesaid by the affirmative vote of the Holders of not less than such specified percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
Any resolution passed or decision taken at any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly held in accordance with this Section shall be binding on all the Holders of Securities of such series and the related coupons, whether or not present or represented at the meeting.
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 1604, if any action is to be taken at a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series with respect to any consent, waiver, request, demand, notice, authorization, direction, or other action that this Indenture expressly provides may be made, given or taken by the Holders of a specified percentage in principal amount of all Outstanding Securities affected thereby, or of the Holders of such series and one or more additional series:
(ii)
          
the principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series that vote in favor of such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action shall be taken into account in determining whether such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action has been made, given or taken under this Indenture.
SECTION 1605. Determination of Voting Rights; Conduct and Adjournment of Meetings. (a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Holders of Securities of
 
 
 
a series in regard to proof of the holding of Securities of such series and of the appointment of proxies and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall deem appropriate. Except as otherwise permitted or required by any such regulations, the holding of Securities shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 and the appointment of any proxy shall be proved in the manner specified in Section 104 or by having the signature of the person executing the proxy witnessed or guaranteed by any trust company, bank or banker authorized by Section 104 to certify to the holding of Bearer Securities. Such regulations may provide that written instruments appointing proxies, regular on their face, may be presumed valid and genuine without the proof specified in Section 104 or other proof.
(b)
   
The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Holders of Securities as provided in Section 1602(b), in which case the Company or the Holders of Securities of the series calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman. A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting.
(c)
   
At any meeting each Holder of a Security of such series or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount of Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by such holder (determined as specified in the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101); provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting to be not Outstanding. The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote, except as a Holder of a Security of such series or proxy.
(d)
   
Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series duly called pursuant to Section 1602 at which a quorum is present may be adjourned from time to time by Persons entitled to vote a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series represented at the meeting; and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
SECTION 1606. Counting Votes and Recording Action of Meetings. The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be by written ballots on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Holders of Securities of such series or of their representatives by proxy and the principal amounts and serial numbers of the Outstanding Securities of such series held or represented by them. The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified written reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting. A record, at least in duplicate, of the proceedings of each meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was given as provided in Section 1602 and, if applicable, Section 1604. Each copy shall be signed and verified by the affidavits of the permanent chairman and secretary
 
 
 
of the meeting and one such copy shall be delivered to the Company, and another to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting. Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
ARTICLE SEVENTEEN
 
SUBORDINATION OF SECURITIES
SECTION 1701. Agreement to Subordinate. In the event a series of Securities ("Subordinated Securities") is, pursuant to Section 301, designated as subordinated in accordance with the terms set out in this Article 17, then except as otherwise provided in a supplemental indenture or pursuant to Section 301, the Company, for itself, its successors and assigns, shall thereby covenant and agree, and each Holder of Subordinated Securities of such series, by his or her acceptance thereof, likewise shall covenant and agree, that the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on each and all of the Subordinated Securities of such series shall be expressly subordinated, to the extent and in the manner hereinafter set forth, in right of payment to the prior payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness.
SECTION 1702. Distribution on Dissolution, Liquidation and Reorganization; Subrogation of Securities. Upon any distribution of assets of the Company upon any dissolution, winding up, liquidation or reorganization of the Company, whether in bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or receivership proceedings or upon an assignment for the benefit of creditors or any other marshalling of the assets and liabilities of the Company or otherwise (subject to the power of a court of competent jurisdiction to make other equitable provision reflecting the rights conferred in this Indenture upon the Senior Indebtedness and the holders thereof with respect to the Subordinated Securities and the holders thereof by a lawful plan of reorganization under applicable bankruptcy law):
(a)
   
the holders of all Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled to receive payment in full of the principal thereof (and premium, if any) and interest due thereon before the Holders of the Subordinated Securities are entitled to receive any payment upon the principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on indebtedness evidenced by the Subordinated Securities; and
(b)
   
any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, to which the Holders of the Subordinated Securities or the Trustee would be entitled except for the provisions of this Article Seventeen shall be paid by the liquidating trustee or agent or other person making such payment or distribution, whether a trustee in bankruptcy, a receiver or liquidating trustee or otherwise, directly to the holders of Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instruments evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably according to the aggregate amounts remaining unpaid on account of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Senior Indebtedness held or represented by each, to the extent necessary to make payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness; and
 
 
 
 
 
(c)
   
in the event that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any payment or distribution of assets of the Company of any kind or character, whether in cash, property or securities, shall be received by the Trustee or the Holders of the Subordinated Securities before all Senior Indebtedness is paid in full, such payment or distribution shall be paid over, upon written notice to a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, to the holder of such Senior Indebtedness or their representative or representatives or to the trustee or trustees under any indenture under which any instrument evidencing any of such Senior Indebtedness may have been issued, ratably as aforesaid, for application to payment of all Senior Indebtedness remaining unpaid until all such Senior Indebtedness shall have been paid in full, after giving effect to any concurrent payment or distribution to the holders of such Senior Indebtedness.
Subject to the payment in full of all Senior Indebtedness, the Holders of Subordinated Securities shall be subrogated to the rights of the holders of Senior Indebtedness (to the extent that distributions otherwise payable to such Holders have been applied to the payment of Senior Indebtedness) to receive payments or distributions of cash, property or securities of the Company applicable to Senior Indebtedness until the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities shall be paid in full and no such payments or distributions to the Holders of the Subordinated Securities of cash, property or securities otherwise distributable to the holders of Senior Indebtedness shall, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Subordinated Securities be deemed to be a payment by the Company to or on account of the Subordinated Securities. It is understood that the provisions of this Article Seventeen are and are intended solely for the purpose of defining the relative rights of the Holders of Subordinated Securities, on the one hand, and the holders of Senior Indebtedness, on the other hand. Nothing contained in this Article Seventeen or elsewhere in this Indenture or in the Subordinated Securities is intended to or shall impair, as between the Company, its creditors other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, and the Holders of the Subordinated Securities, the obligation of the Company, which is unconditional and absolute, to pay to the Holders of the Subordinated Securities the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities as and when the same shall become due and payable in accordance with their terms, or to affect the relative rights of the Holders of the Subordinated Securities and creditors of the Company other than the holders of Senior Indebtedness, nor shall anything herein or in the Subordinated Securities prevent the Trustee or the Holder of any Subordinated Security from exercising all remedies otherwise permitted by applicable law upon default under this Indenture, subject to the rights, if any, under this Article Seventeen of the holders of Senior Indebtedness in respect of cash, property or securities of the Company received upon the exercise of any such remedy. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article Seventeen, the Trustee, subject to the provisions of Section 602, shall be entitled to rely upon a certificate of the liquidating trustee or agent or other person making any distribution to the Trustee for the purpose of ascertaining the Persons entitled to participate in such distribution, the holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereof and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Seventeen.
With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, the Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to the holders of Senior
 
 
 
Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee shall not be liable to any such holder if it shall pay over or distribute to or on behalf of Holders of Subordinated Securities or the Company, or any other Person, moneys or assets to which any holder of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article Seventeen.
If the Trustee or any Holder of Subordinated Securities does not file a proper claim or proof of debt in the form required in any proceeding referred to above prior to 30 days before the expiration of the time to file such claim in such proceeding, then the holder of any Senior Indebtedness is hereby authorized, and has the right, to file an appropriate claim or claims for or on behalf of such Holder of Subordinated Securities.
SECTION 1703. No Payment on Subordinated Securities in Event of Default on Senior Indebtedness. No payment by the Company on account of principal (or premium, if any), sinking funds or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities shall be made unless full payment of amounts then due for principal (premium, if any), sinking funds and interest on Senior Indebtedness has been made or duly provided for in money or money's worth.
SECTION 1704. Payments on Securities Permitted. Nothing contained in this Indenture or in any of the Subordinated Securities shall (a) affect the obligation of the Company to make, or prevent the Company from making, at any time except as provided in Sections 1702 and 1703, payments of principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities or (b) prevent the application by the Trustee of any moneys or assets deposited with it hereunder to the payment of or on account of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on the Subordinated Securities, unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall have received at its Corporate Trust Office written notice of any fact prohibiting the making of such payment more than two Business Days prior to the date fixed for such payment.
SECTION 1705. Authorization of Holders to Trustee to Effect Subordination. Each Holder of Subordinated Securities by his acceptance thereof authorizes and directs the Trustee on his behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Article Seventeen and appoints the Trustee his attorney-in-fact for any and all such purposes.
SECTION 1706. Notices to Trustee. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Article or any other provisions of this Indenture, neither the Trustee nor any Paying Agent (other than the Company) shall be charged with knowledge of the existence of any Senior Indebtedness or of any fact which would prohibit the making of any payment of moneys or assets to or by the Trustee or such Paying Agent, unless and until a Responsible Officer of the Trustee or such Paying Agent shall have received (in the case of a Responsible Officer of the Trustee, at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee) written notice thereof from the Company or from the holder of any Senior Indebtedness or from the trustee for any such holder, together with proof satisfactory to the Trustee of such holding of Senior Indebtedness or of the authority of such trustee and, prior to the receipt of any such written notice, the Trustee shall be entitled in all respects conclusively to presume that no such facts exist; provided, however, that if at least two Business Days prior to the date upon which by the terms hereof any such moneys or assets may become payable for any purpose (including, without limitation, the payment of either the
 
 
 
principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, on any Security) a Responsible Officer of the Trustee shall not have received with respect to such moneys or assets the notice provided for in this Section 1706, then, anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall have full power and authority to receive such moneys or assets and to apply the same to the purpose for which they were received, and shall not be affected by any notice to the contrary, which may be received by it within two Business Days prior to such date. The Trustee shall be entitled to rely on the delivery to it of a written notice by a Person representing himself to be a holder of Senior Indebtedness (or a trustee on behalf of such holder) to establish that such a notice has been given by a holder of Senior Indebtedness or a trustee on behalf of any such holder. In the event that the Trustee determines in good faith that further evidence is required with respect to the right of any Person as a holder of Senior Indebtedness to participate in any payment or distribution pursuant to this Article Seventeen, the Trustee may request such Person to furnish evidence to the reasonable satisfaction of the Trustee as to the amount of Senior Indebtedness held by such Person, the extent to which such Person is entitled to participate in such payment or distribution and any other facts pertinent to the rights of such Person under this Article Seventeen and, if such evidence is not furnished, the Trustee may defer any payment to such Person pending judicial determination as to the right of such Person to receive such payment.
SECTION 1707. Trustee as Holder of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee in its individual capacity shall be entitled to all the rights set forth in this Article Seventeen in respect of any Senior Indebtedness at any time held by it to the same extent as any other holder of Senior Indebtedness, and nothing in Section 613 or elsewhere in this Indenture shall be construed to deprive the Trustee of any of its rights as such holder. Nothing in this Article Seventeen shall apply to claims of, or payments to, the Trustee under or pursuant to Sections 506 or 606.
SECTION 1708. Modifications of Terms of Senior Indebtedness. Any renewal or extension of the time of payment of any Senior Indebtedness or the exercise by the holders of Senior Indebtedness of any of their rights under any instrument creating or evidencing Senior Indebtedness, including, without limitation, the waiver of default thereunder, may be made or done all without notice to or assent from the Holders of the Securities or the Trustee. No compromise, alteration, amendment, modification, extension, renewal or other change of, or waiver, consent or other action in respect of, any liability or obligation under or in respect of, or of any of the terms, covenants or conditions of any indenture or other instrument under which any Senior Indebtedness is outstanding or of such Senior Indebtedness, whether or not such release is in accordance with the provisions of any applicable document, shall in any way alter or affect any of the provisions of this Article Seventeen or of the Securities relating to the subordination thereof.
SECTION 1709. Reliance on Judicial Order or Certificate of Liquidating Agent. Upon any payment or distribution of assets of the Company referred to in this Article Seventeen, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities shall be entitled to rely upon any order or decree entered by any court of competent jurisdiction in which such insolvency, bankruptcy, receivership, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution, winding up or similar case or proceeding is pending, or a certificate of the trustee in bankruptcy, liquidating trustee, custodian, receiver, assignee for the benefit of creditors, agent or other person making such payment or distribution, delivered to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities, for the purpose of ascertaining the
 
 
 
persons entitled to participate in such payment or distribution to holders of Senior Indebtedness and other indebtedness of the Company, the amount thereof or payable thereon, the amount or amounts paid or distributed thereon and all other facts pertinent thereto or to this Article Seventeen.
SECTION 1710. Satisfaction and Discharge; Defeasance and Covenant Defeasance. Amounts and Government Obligations deposited in trust with the Trustee pursuant to and in accordance with Articles Four and Fifteen and not, at the time of such deposit, prohibited to be deposited under Sections 1702 or 1703, shall not be subject to this Article Seventeen.
SECTION 1711. Trustee Not Fiduciary for Holders of Senior Indebtedness. The Trustee shall not be deemed to owe any fiduciary duty to the holders of Senior Indebtedness and shall not be liable to any such holders if the Trustee shall in good faith mistakenly pay over or distribute to Holders of Securities or to the Company or to any other person cash, property or securities to which any holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be entitled by virtue of this Article or otherwise. With respect to the holders of Senior Indebtedness, the Trustee undertakes to perform or to observe only such of its covenants or obligations as are specifically set forth in this Article and no implied covenants or obligations with respect to holders of Senior Indebtedness shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee.
* * * * *
This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same Indenture.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed, as of the day and year first above written.
VIACOM INC.
By:
/s/ George S. Nelson
_____________
Name: George S. Nelson
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
as Trustee
By:
/s/ Julie Salovitch-Miller
_
  
________
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
FORMS OF CERTIFICATION
 
EXHIBIT A-1
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY
PERSON ENTITLED TO RECEIVE BEARER SECURITY
OR TO OBTAIN INTEREST PAYABLE PRIOR
TO THE EXCHANGE DATE
 
CERTIFICATE
 
[Insert title or sufficient description
of Securities to be delivered]
 
This is to certify that as of the date hereof, and except as set forth below, the above-captioned Securities held by you for our account (i) are owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States federal income taxation regardless of its source ("United States Person(s)"), (ii) are owned by United States Person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 2.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States Person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such United States financial institution hereby agrees, on its own behalf or through its agent, that you may advise Viacom Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) are owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)), and, in addition, if the owner is a United States or foreign financial institution described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)), this is to further certify that such financial institution has not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States Person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
We undertake to advise you promptly by tested telex on or prior to the date on which you intend to submit your certification relating to the above-captioned Securities held by
 
 
 
you for our account in accordance with your Operating Procedures if any applicable statement herein is not correct on such date, and in the absence of any such notification it may be assumed that this certification applies as of such date.
This certificate excepts and does not relate to [U.S.$]__________ of such interest in the above-captioned Securities in respect of which we are not able to certify and as to which we understand an exchange for an interest in a permanent global Security or an exchange for and delivery of definitive Securities (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) cannot be made until we do so certify.
We understand that this certificate may be required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
 
Dated:
[To be dated no earlier than the 15th day
prior to (i) the Exchange Date or (ii) the
relevant Interest Payment Date occurring
prior to the Exchange Date, as applicable]
[Name of Person Making Certification]
 
 
_____________________________________
(Authorized Signatory)
Name:
Title:
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A-2
 
FORM OF CERTIFICATE TO BE GIVEN BY EUROCLEAR
AND CLEARSTREAM IN
CONNECTION WITH THE EXCHANGE OF A PORTION OF A
TEMPORARY GLOBAL SECURITY OR TO OBTAIN INTEREST
PAYABLE PRIOR TO THE EXCHANGE DATE
 
CERTIFICATE
 
[Insert title or sufficient description
of Securities to be delivered]
 
This is to certify that based solely on written certifications that we have received in writing, by tested telex or by electronic transmission from each of the persons appearing in our records as persons entitled to a portion of the principal amount set forth below (our "Member Organizations") substantially in the form attached hereto, as of the date hereof, [U.S.$]__________ principal amount of the above-captioned Securities (i) is owned by person(s) that are not citizens or residents of the United States, domestic partnerships, domestic corporations or any estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States Federal income taxation regardless of its source ("United States Person(s)"), (ii) is owned by United States Person(s) that are (a) foreign branches of United States financial institutions (financial institutions, as defined in U.S. Treasury Regulations Section 1.165-12(c)(1)(v) are herein referred to as "financial institutions") purchasing for their own account or for resale, or (b) United States Person(s) who acquired the Securities through foreign branches of United States financial institutions and who hold the Securities through such United States financial institutions on the date hereof (and in either case (a) or (b), each such financial institution has agreed, on its own behalf or through its agent, that we may advise Viacom Inc. or its agent that such financial institution will comply with the requirements of Section 165(j)(3)(A), (B) or (C) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations thereunder), or (iii) is owned by United States or foreign financial institution(s) for purposes of resale during the restricted period (as defined in United States Treasury Regulations Section 1.163-5(c)(2)(i)(D)(7)) and, to the further effect, that financial institutions described in clause (iii) above (whether or not also described in clause (i) or (ii)) have certified that they have not acquired the Securities for purposes of resale directly or indirectly to a United States Person or to a person within the United States or its possessions.
As used herein, "United States" means the United States of America (including the states and the District of Columbia); and its "possessions" include Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, Wake Island and the Northern Mariana Islands.
We further certify that (i) we are not making available herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) any portion of the temporary global Security representing the above-captioned Securities excepted in the above-referenced certificates of Member Organizations and (ii) as of the date hereof we have not received any notification from any of our
 
 
 
Member Organizations to the effect that the statements made by such Member Organizations with respect to any portion of the part submitted herewith for exchange (or, if relevant, collection of any interest) are no longer true and cannot be relied upon as of the date hereof.
We understand that this certification is required in connection with certain tax legislation in the United States. If administrative or legal proceedings are commenced or threatened in connection with which this certificate is or would be relevant, we irrevocably authorize you to produce this certificate or a copy thereof to any interested party in such proceedings.
Dated:
{To be dated no earlier than the Exchange
Date or the relevant Interest Payment
Date occurring prior to the Exchange Date,
as applicable}
[EUROCLEAR BANK S.A./N.V.]
[CLEARSTREAM]
                                                                           
By
 
 
 
 
 

EXECUTION COPY
 
VIACOM INC.
 
AND
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
 
Trustee
 
              
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
Dated as of April 12, 2006
 
 
To Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006
between
VIACOM INC.
and
THE BANK OF NEW YORK,
Trustee
 
              
 
Senior Notes and Debentures
 
 
 
 
FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of April 12, 2006, between VIACOM INC., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "
Trustee
") to the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, (as so amended, the "
Indenture
").
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
WHEREAS, Section 901(5) of the Indenture permits supplements thereto without the consent of Holders of Securities to change any provisions of the Indenture with respect to a series of Securities, where there are no Securities Outstanding which are entitled to the benefit of such provision; and
WHEREAS, as contemplated by Section 301 of the Indenture, the Company intends to issue from time to time three new series of Securities, consisting of (i) 5.75% senior notes due 2011 (the "2011 Senior Notes"), (ii) 6.25% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") and (iii) 6.875% senior debentures due 2036 (the "2036 Senior Debentures") under the Indenture;
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, each party agrees as follows, for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures, as follows:
SECTION 1.
      
For the purpose of this First Supplemental Indenture, all terms used herein, unless otherwise defined, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture, as amended hereby.
SECTION 2.
      
The Company shall issue (a) 2011 Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000,000, (b) 2016 Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000,000 and (c) 2036 Senior Debentures in an aggregate principal amount of $1,750,000,000. The forms of the 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes and 2036 Senior Debentures are set forth, respectively, in Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto. The 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures shall include the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto, respectively, substantially in the form so set forth, except to the extent otherwise provided herein.
SECTION 3.
      
The 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes and 2036 Senior Debentures offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global 2011 Senior Notes, permanent global 2016 Senior Notes and permanent global 2036 Senior Debentures in registered form, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto, respectively, (respectively, the "
U.S. Global 2011 Senior Notes,
" the "
U.S. Global 2016 Senior Notes
" and the "
U.S. Global 2036 Senior Debentures,
" and, collectively, the "
U.S. Global Securities
"), registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary, deposited
 
 
with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in Section 303 of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee, in accordance with the instructions given by the Holder thereof, as hereinafter provided.
The 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global 2011 Senior Notes, permanent global 2016 Senior Notes and permanent global 2036 Senior Debentures, as the case may be, in registered form, substantially in the forms set forth in Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C hereto, respectively, (respectively, the "
Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes,
" the "
Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes,
" and the "
Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures,
" and, collectively, the "
Offshore Global Securities
"), registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary, deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in Section 303 of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the Offshore Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee, as hereinafter provided.
The U.S. Global Securities and the Offshore Global Securities are sometimes referred to herein as the "
Global Securities
."
SECTION 4.
     
For the sole benefit of the Holders of the 2011 Senior Notes, Section 101 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following definitions, each in appropriate alphabetical order:
"
Agent
" means any Transfer Agent, Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or Authenticating Agent.
"
Closing Date
" means April 12, 2006.
"
Depositary
" means, as applicable, either the U.S. Depositary or the Common Depositary.
"
Exchange Notes
" means any securities of the Company containing terms identical to the 2011 Senior Notes (except that such Exchange Notes shall be registered under the Securities Act and shall not include the restrictions on transfer or any increase in the interest rate) that are issued and exchanged for the 2011 Senior Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
"
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
" means the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Make-Whole Amount
" means, with respect to a series of Securities, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that
 
 
 
would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest payment for such series of Securities at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable with respect to such series of Securities if the redemption had not been made, to the applicable Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of Securities being redeemed.
"
Non-United States Person
" means a Person who is not a United States Person.
"
Participant
" means a Person who has an account with a Depositary.
"
Registration Rights Agreement
" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 12, 2006, among the Company, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. and certain permitted assigns specified therein.
"
Registration Statement
" means the Registration Statement as defined and described in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Regulation S
" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
"
Regulation S Non-U.S. Person
" means a person who is not a "U.S. Person" as defined in Regulation S.
"
Regulation S U.S. Person
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Regulation S.
"
Reinvestment Rate
" means the rate equal to (i) 0.25% for the series of Securities designated as 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011 plus (ii) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the Maturity of the principal of the series of Securities being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the Maturity of such series of Securities, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Maturity of such series of Securities would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
"
Restricted Security
" means any 2011 Senior Note that has not been sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement.
"
Rule 144A
" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
"
Securities Act
" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 5.
      
For the sole benefit of the Holders of the 2016 Senior Notes, Section 101 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following definitions, each in appropriate alphabetical order:
"
Agent
" means any Transfer Agent, Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or Authenticating Agent.
"
Closing Date
" means April 12, 2006.
"
Depositary
" means, as applicable, either the U.S. Depositary or the Common Depositary.
"
Exchange Notes
" means any securities of the Company containing terms identical to the 2016 Senior Notes (except that such Exchange Notes shall be registered under the Securities Act and shall not include the restrictions on transfer or any increase in the interest rate) that are issued and exchanged for the 2016 Senior Notes pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
"
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
" means the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Make-Whole Amount
" means, with respect to a series of Securities, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest payment for such series of Securities at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable with respect to such series of Securities if the redemption had not been made, to the applicable Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of Securities being redeemed.
"
Non-United States Person
" means a Person who is not a United States Person.
"
Participant
" means a Person who has an account with a Depositary.
"
Registration Rights Agreement
" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 12, 2006, among the Company, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. and certain permitted assigns specified therein.
"
Registration Statement
" means the Registration Statement as defined and described in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Regulation S
" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
"
Regulation S Non-U.S. Person
" means a person who is not a "U.S. Person" as defined in Regulation S.
"
Regulation S U.S. Person
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Regulation S.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Reinvestment Rate
" means the rate equal to (i) 0.30% for the series of Securities designated as 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 plus (ii) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the Maturity of the principal of the series of Securities being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the Maturity of such series of Securities, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Maturity of such series of Securities would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
"
Restricted Security
" means any 2016 Senior Note that has not been sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement.
"
Rule 144A
" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
"
Securities Act
" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
SECTION 6.
     
For the sole benefit of the Holders of the 2036 Senior Debentures, Section 101 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following definitions, each in appropriate alphabetical order:
"
Agent
" means any Transfer Agent, Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or Authenticating Agent.
"
Closing Date
" means April 12, 2006.
"
Depositary
" means, as applicable, either the U.S. Depositary or the Common Depositary.
"
Exchange Debentures
" means any securities of the Company containing terms identical to the 2036 Senior Debentures (except that such Exchange Debentures shall be registered under the Securities Act and shall not include the restrictions on transfer or any increase in the interest rate) that are issued and exchanged for the 2036 Senior Debentures pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
"
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
" means the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Make-Whole Amount
" means, with respect to a series of Securities, the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a
 
 
 
semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest payment for such series of Securities at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable with respect to such series of Securities if the redemption had not been made, to the applicable Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of Securities being redeemed.
"
Non-United States Person
" means a Person who is not a United States Person.
"
Participant
" means a Person who has an account with a Depositary.
"
Registration Rights Agreement
" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated April 12, 2006, among the Company, Banc of America Securities LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., J. P. Morgan Securities Inc. and certain permitted assigns specified therein.
"
Registration Statement
" means the Registration Statement as defined and described in the Registration Rights Agreement.
"
Regulation S
" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
"
Regulation S Non-U.S. Person
" means a person who is not a "U.S. Person" as defined in Regulation S.
"
Regulation S U.S. Person
" has the meaning assigned thereto in Regulation S.
"
Reinvestment Rate
" means the rate equal to (i) 0.35% for the series of Securities designated as 6.875% Senior Debentures due 2036 plus (ii) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the Maturity of the principal of the series of Securities being redeemed or paid. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the Maturity of such series of Securities, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Maturity of such series of Securities would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
"
Restricted Security
" means any 2036 Senior Debentures that has not been sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement.
"
Rule 144A
" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
"
Securities Act
" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 7.
      
For the sole benefit of the holders of the 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures, Section 305 of the Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following Sections 305, 305A, 305B, 305C, 305D and 305E (the "
New Provisions
"):
SECTION 305.
Registrar and Paying Agent
. The Company shall maintain an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for transfer or for exchange (the "
Transfer Agent
") and for the registration of such transfer or exchange (the "
Registrar
", which term shall include acting in the capacity of Transfer Agent), an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for payment (the "
Paying Agent
") and an office or agency where notices and demands pursuant to this section to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served, which shall be in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York with respect to such series. The Company shall cause the Registrar to keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange (the "
Security Register
"). The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. The Company may have one or more co-Registrars and one or more additional Paying Agents.
 
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent and any change in the address of such Agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent and/or agent for service of notices and demands pursuant to this section, the Trustee shall act as such Registrar, Paying Agent and/or agent for service of notices and demands pursuant to this section. The Company may remove any Agent upon written notice to such Agent and the Trustee;
provided
that no such removal shall become effective until (i) the acceptance of an appointment by a successor Agent to such Agent as evidenced by an appropriate agency agreement entered into by the Company and such successor Agent and delivered to the Trustee or (ii) notification to the Trustee that the Trustee shall serve as such Agent until the appointment of a successor Agent in accordance with clause (i) of this proviso. The Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Affiliate of any of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar, and/or agent for service of notice and demands.
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent, Authenticating Agent and agent for service of notice and demands. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee as of each Regular Record Date and at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request the names and addresses of Holders as they appear in the Security Register, including the aggregate principal amount of Securities held by each Holder.
SECTION 305A.
Transfer and Exchange
. A Holder may transfer a Security only by written application to the Registrar stating the name of the proposed transferee and
 
 
 
otherwise complying with the terms of this Indenture. No such transfer shall be effected until, and such transferee shall succeed to the rights of a Holder only upon, final acceptance and registration of the transfer by the Registrar in the Security Register. Prior to the registration of any transfer by a Holder as provided herein, the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company shall treat the person in whose name the Security is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes whether or not the Security shall be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Furthermore, any Holder of a Global Security shall, by acceptance of such Global Security, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Securities may be effected only through a book-entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Security (or its agent) and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Security shall be required to be reflected in a book-entry. When Securities are presented to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met (including that such Securities are duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or by an attorney who is authorized in writing to act on behalf of the Holder);
provided that
 the requirements of Section 305D herein are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange or redemption of the Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
The Registrar shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities selected for redemption under Article Eleven and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
SECTION 305B.
Legend on Restricted Securities
. (i) Unless and until a 2011 Senior Note, a 2016 Senior Note or a 2036 Senior Debenture is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the U.S. Global 2011 Senior Notes, U.S. Global 2016 Senior Notes and U.S. Global 2036 Senior Debentures shall bear the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C, respectively, and (ii) the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes and Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures shall bear the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A, Exhibit B and Exhibit C, respectively, until (A) at least the 41 day after the Closing Date and (B) receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto.
st
Except as provided in Section 305D, the Trustee shall not issue any unlegended 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures until it has received an Officers' Certificate from the Company directing it to do so.
 
 
 
 
 
SECTION 305C.
Book-Entry Provisions for U.S. Global Securities and Offshore Global Securities
. (a) Each U.S. Global Security and Offshore Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such U.S. Global Security or Offshore Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be delivered, as applicable, either to the Trustee, as custodian for the U.S. Depositary, or to the Common Depositary and (iii) bear legends as set forth on the face of the form of the 2011 Senior Note, the 2016 Senior Note or the 2036 Senior Debenture, as the case may be.
Members of, or Participants in, the Depositary ("
Agent Members
") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian or the Common Depositary, as applicable, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
(b)
          
Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees, and as further specified in Section 305D. Transfers of interests in one Global Security to parties who will hold the interests through the same Global Security will be effected in the ordinary way in accordance with the respective rules and operating procedures of the applicable Depositaries and the provisions of Section 305D. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" of Euroclear and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to interests in the Global Securities that are held by Agent Members through Euroclear and Clearstream.
(c)
          
Any beneficial interest in one of the Global Securities that is transferred to a person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another Global Security will, upon transfer, cease to be an interest in such Global Security and become an interest in such other Global Security and, accordingly, will thereafter be subject to all transfer restrictions, if any, and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in such other Global Security for so long as it remains such an interest.
(d)
          
In connection with any transfer of a portion of the interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 305C, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the interest in such Global Security to be transferred.
(e)
          
In connection with the transfer of the U.S. Global Securities or the Offshore Global Securities, in whole, to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b) of
 
 
 
this Section 305C, the U.S. Global Securities or Offshore Global Securities, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
(f)
           
The registered holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any person, including Agent Members and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
(g)
          
The Securities are initially solely issuable as Global Securities. Registered Securities shall be physically transferred to all beneficial owners in definitive form in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Security, if the Depositary with respect to such Global Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security, as the case may be, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice. In addition, the Company may at any time, and in its sole discretion, determine not to have the Securities represented by Global Securities and, in such event, the Company shall issue Securities in definitive form in exchange for the Global Security representing such Securities.
(h)
          
All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid, legally enforceable obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
SECTION 305D. (a)
Transfers to QIBs
. The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures constituting a Restricted Security to a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A (a "
QIB
"):
(i)
           
if the 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures to be transferred consist of an interest in the U.S. Global Securities, the transfer of such interest may be effected through the book-entry system maintained by the Depositary; and
(ii)
          
(A) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member holding a beneficial interest in the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures, to be transferred, and (B) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an
 
 
 
increase in the principal amount of the U.S. Global 2011 Senior Notes, U.S. Global 2016 Senior Notes or U.S. Global 2036 Senior Debentures, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures, to be transferred and the Trustee shall decrease the amount of the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures.
(b)
          
Transfers of Interests in the Offshore Global Securities
. The following provisions shall apply with respect to any transfer of interests in Offshore Global Securities:
(i)
           
until the expiration of the 40-day distribution compliance period within the meaning of Rule 903 of Regulation S, any offer or sale of interests in the Offshore Global Securities shall be made (a) (1) outside the United States in compliance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act or (2) to a QIB in compliance with Rule 144A and (b) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction;
(ii)
          
prior to the removal of the legend from the Offshore Global Securities pursuant to Section 305B, the Registrar shall refuse to register such transfer unless such transfer complies with this Section 305D; and
(iii)
         
after such removal, the Registrar shall register the transfer of any such 2011 Senior Note, 2016 Senior Note or 2036 Senior Debenture without requiring any additional certification.
(c)
          
Transfers to Regulation S Non-U.S. Persons at Any Time
. The following provisions shall apply with respect to any transfer of a Restricted Security to a Regulation S Non-U.S. Person:
(i)
           
The Registrar shall register any proposed transfer to any Regulation S Non-U.S. Person if (A) the Security to be transferred is an interest in U.S. Global Securities, (B) the proposed transferor has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto and (C) if requested by the Company, the proposed transferee has delivered to the Registrar an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Company that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.
(ii)
          
(A) If the proposed transferor is an Agent Member holding a beneficial interest in U.S. Global 2011 Senior Notes, U.S. Global 2016 Senior Notes or U.S. Global 2036 Senior Debentures upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) the documents, if any, required by paragraph (i) and (y) instructions in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the U.S. Global 2011 Senior Notes, U.S. Global 2016 Senior Notes or U.S. Global 2036 Senior Debentures in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial
 
 
 
interest in the U.S. Global Security to be transferred, and (B) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes, Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes or Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures in an amount equal to the principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities to be transferred, and the Trustee shall decrease the amount of the U.S. Global Securities.
SECTION 305E.
General
. By its acceptance of any 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures bearing the legends set forth on the face of the form of the 2011 Senior Note, 2016 Senior Note or 2036 Senior Debenture as the case may be, each Holder of such a 2011 Senior Note, 2016 Senior Note or 2036 Senior Debenture acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such 2011 Senior Note, 2016 Senior Note or 2036 Senior Debenture set forth in the Indenture and in such legends and agrees that it will transfer such 2011 Senior Note, 2016 Senior Note or 2036 Senior Debenture only as provided in the Indenture.
The Registrar shall retain, in accordance with its customary procedures, copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to this Section 305E. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
 
SECTION 8.
      
For the sole benefit of the Holders of the 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures, Section 1101 of the Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following Section 1101:
Section 1101.
Optional Redemption
.
The Securities of any given series will be redeemable, in accordance with this Article Eleven, at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The Make-Whole Amount with respect to such a redemption shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to so appoint an independent investment banking institution at least 30 Business Days prior to the Redemption Date, or if such institution is unwilling or unable to calculate the Make-Whole Amount, the calculation of such Make-Whole Amount shall be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee.
 
 
 
If, for purposes of calculating the Make-Whole Amount, the Reinvestment Rate shall not be available as set forth in the definition thereof, the Reinvestment Rate shall be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution.
SECTION 9.
       
For the sole benefit of the Holders of the 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures, a new Section 1108 shall be added to the Indenture as follows:
(a)
   
Exchange Notes and/or Exchange Debentures may from time to time be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Exchange Notes and/or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, upon cancellation of an equal amount of Restricted Securities tendered in exchange, upon a Company Order without further action by the Company.
(b)
   
No exchange of 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures for Exchange Notes and/or Exchange Debentures, as the case may be, shall occur until a Registration Statement shall have been declared effective by the Commission and any 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes or 2036 Senior Debentures that are exchanged for Exchange Notes and/or Exchange Debentures shall be cancelled by the Trustee.
SECTION 10.
     
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
SECTION 11.
     
This First Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 12.
     
Except as herein amended with respect to the 2011 Senior Notes, 2016 Senior Notes and 2036 Senior Debentures, all applicable terms, conditions and provisions of the Indenture, as supplemented, shall continue in full force and effect and shall remain binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this First Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first written above.
VIACOM INC.
 
 
ATTEST
 
By:
/s/ Allison S. Gray_________
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A TO FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Unless and until a Security is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, (i) the U.S. Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof and (ii) the Offshore Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof until at least the 41 day after the Closing Date and receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto:
st
THIS SENIOR SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT''), OR ANY STATE OR OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SENIOR SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ( RULE 144A'')), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SENIOR SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION'' PURSUANT TO RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S, (2) AGREES NOT TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SENIOR SECURITY PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS THE LATER OF (X) TWO YEARS (OR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD OF TIME AS PERMITTED BY RULE 144(k) OF THE SECURITIES ACT) AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH VIACOM OR ANY AFFILIATE OF VIACOM WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND (Y) SUCH LATER DATE, IF ANY, AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW (THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE'') EXCEPT (A) TO VIACOM OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SENIOR SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A INSIDE THE UNITED STATES, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING AND CONSISTENT WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND; PROVIDED THAT VIACOM, THE TRUSTEE, AND THE REGISTRAR SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (I) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO
 
 
 
 
EACH OF THEM, AND (II) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO VIACOM AND THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS UNITED STATES,'' OFFSHORE TRANSACTION,'' AND U.S. PERSON'' HAVE THE RESPECTIVE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
Each Offshore Global Security shall bear the following legend: PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S, THIS SENIOR SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO A U.S. PERSON OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON.
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary by a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
 
 
 
VIACOM INC.
5.75% Senior Note due 2011
CUSIP:
CINS:
ISIN:
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                    on April 30, 2011 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on October 30, 2006 and semi-annually thereafter, on April 30 and October 30 in each year, from April 12, 2006, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 5.75% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 15 or October 15, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
provided however
, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006
 
 
 
 
between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,500,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $                     of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006. In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 300 calendar day following the Closing Date or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Securities is not declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 360 calendar day following the Closing Date (or on or prior to such later date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement) or ceases to be effective or usable during the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement (each, a "Registration Default"), the per annum interest rate borne by the Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum from the end of the applicable period giving rise to such Registration Default. The interest rate borne by the Securities will be increased by an additional one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum for each subsequent 90-day period during which any such Registration Default continues;
th
th
provided that
the aggregate increase in such annual interest rate may in no event exceed one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the interest rate borne by the Securities shall be reduced to the original interest rate borne by the Securities. No increase in the rate shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective. All accrued additional interest shall be paid to Holders by the Company in the same manner as interest is paid pursuant to the Indenture. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Registration Rights Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate;
provided
that no Securities of this series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A RESTRICTED SECURITY: Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such Holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto).
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders
 
 
 
 
of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days;
provided, however
, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in
 
 
 
 
whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
By: _______________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee
By: ______________________
Authorized Signatory
 
Dated: April 12, 2006
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B TO FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Unless and until a Security is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, (i) the U.S. Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof and (ii) the Offshore Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof until at least the 41 day after the Closing Date and receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto:
st
THIS SENIOR SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT''), OR ANY STATE OR OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SENIOR SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ( RULE 144A'')), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SENIOR SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION'' PURSUANT TO RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S, (2) AGREES NOT TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SENIOR SECURITY PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS THE LATER OF (X) TWO YEARS (OR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD OF TIME AS PERMITTED BY RULE 144(k) OF THE SECURITIES ACT) AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH VIACOM OR ANY AFFILIATE OF VIACOM WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND (Y) SUCH LATER DATE, IF ANY, AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW (THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE'') EXCEPT (A) TO VIACOM OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SENIOR SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A INSIDE THE UNITED STATES, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING AND CONSISTENT WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND; PROVIDED THAT VIACOM, THE TRUSTEE, AND THE REGISTRAR SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (I) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL,
 
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (II) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO VIACOM AND THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS UNITED STATES,'' OFFSHORE TRANSACTION,'' AND U.S. PERSON'' HAVE THE RESPECTIVE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
Each Offshore Global Security shall bear the following legend: PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S, THIS SENIOR SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO A U.S. PERSON OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON.
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary by a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
 
 
 
VIACOM INC.
6.25% Senior Note due 2016
CUSIP:
CINS:
ISIN:
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                   on April 30, 2016 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on October 30, 2006 and semi-annually thereafter, on April 30 and October 30 in each year, from April 12, 2006, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 6.25% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 15 or October 15, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
provided however
, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006
 
 
 
 
between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented , the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,500,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $                        of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006. In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 300 calendar day following the Closing Date or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Securities is not declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 360 calendar day following the Closing Date (or on or prior to such later date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement) or ceases to be effective or usable during the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement (each, a "Registration Default"), the per annum interest rate borne by the Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum from the end of the applicable period giving rise to such Registration Default. The interest rate borne by the Securities will be increased by an additional one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum for each subsequent 90-day period during which any such Registration Default continues;
th
th
provided that
the aggregate increase in such annual interest rate may in no event exceed one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the interest rate borne by the Securities shall be reduced to the original interest rate borne by the Securities. No increase in the rate shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective. All accrued additional interest shall be paid to Holders by the Company in the same manner as interest is paid pursuant to the Indenture. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Registration Rights Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate;
provided
that no Securities of this series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A RESTRICTED SECURITY: Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such Holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto).
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders
 
 
 
 
of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days;
provided, however
, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in
 
 
 
 
whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
By: _______________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee
By: ______________________
Authorized Signatory
 
Dated: April 12, 2006
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT C TO FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
Unless and until a Security is exchanged for an Exchange Debenture or sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, (i) the U.S. Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof and (ii) the Offshore Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof until at least the 41 day after the Closing Date and receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto:
st
THIS SENIOR SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE SECURITIES ACT''), OR ANY STATE OR OTHER SECURITIES LAWS. NEITHER THIS SENIOR SECURITY NOR ANY INTEREST OR PARTICIPATION HEREIN MAY BE REOFFERED, SOLD, ASSIGNED, TRANSFERRED, PLEDGED, ENCUMBERED OR OTHERWISE DISPOSED OF IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR UNLESS SUCH TRANSACTION IS EXEMPT FROM, OR NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF, THE HOLDER (1) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ( RULE 144A'')), OR (B) IT IS NOT A U.S. PERSON AND IS ACQUIRING THIS SENIOR SECURITY IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION'' PURSUANT TO RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S, (2) AGREES NOT TO OFFER, SELL OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER SUCH SENIOR SECURITY PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS THE LATER OF (X) TWO YEARS (OR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD OF TIME AS PERMITTED BY RULE 144(k) OF THE SECURITIES ACT) AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUE DATE HEREOF (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH VIACOM OR ANY AFFILIATE OF VIACOM WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY (OR ANY PREDECESSOR OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY) AND (Y) SUCH LATER DATE, IF ANY, AS MAY BE REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW (THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE'') EXCEPT (A) TO VIACOM OR ANY SUBSIDIARY THEREOF, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BEEN DECLARED EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) FOR SO LONG AS THE SENIOR SECURITIES ARE ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A INSIDE THE UNITED STATES, TO A PERSON IT REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER'' AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A THAT PURCHASES FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (D) TO NON-U.S. PERSONS IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION WITHIN THE MEANING AND CONSISTENT WITH THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO ANOTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (3) AGREES THAT IT WILL GIVE TO EACH PERSON TO WHOM THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS TRANSFERRED A NOTICE SUBSTANTIALLY TO THE EFFECT OF THIS LEGEND; PROVIDED THAT VIACOM, THE TRUSTEE, AND THE REGISTRAR SHALL HAVE THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY SUCH OFFER, SALE OR TRANSFER (I) PURSUANT TO CLAUSES (D) OR (E) TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL,
 
C-1
 
 
 
CERTIFICATION AND/OR OTHER INFORMATION REASONABLY SATISFACTORY TO EACH OF THEM, AND (II) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE OF TRANSFER IN THE FORM APPEARING ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS SENIOR SECURITY IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO VIACOM AND THE TRUSTEE. THIS LEGEND WILL BE REMOVED UPON THE REQUEST OF THE HOLDER AFTER THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE. AS USED HEREIN, THE TERMS UNITED STATES,'' OFFSHORE TRANSACTION,'' AND U.S. PERSON'' HAVE THE RESPECTIVE MEANINGS GIVEN TO THEM BY REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT.
Each Offshore Global Security shall bear the following legend: PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S, THIS SENIOR SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO A U.S. PERSON OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON.
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary by a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
 
 
 
 
VIACOM INC.
6.875% Senior Debenture due 2036
CUSIP:
CINS:
ISIN:
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                   on April 30, 2036 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on October 30, 2006 and semi-annually thereafter, on April 30 and October 30 in each year, from April 12, 2006, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 6.875% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the April 15 or October 15, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
provided however
, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006
 
C-3
 
 
 
between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 6.875% Senior Debentures due 2036, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $1,750,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $                       of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 12, 2006. In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 300 calendar day following the Closing Date or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Securities is not declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 360 calendar day following the Closing Date (or on or prior to such later date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement) or ceases to be effective or usable during the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement (each, a "Registration Default"), the per annum interest rate borne by the Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum from the end of the applicable period giving rise to such Registration Default. The interest rate borne by the Securities will be increased by an additional one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum for each subsequent 90-day period during which any such Registration Default continues;
th
th
provided that
the aggregate increase in such annual interest rate may in no event exceed one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the interest rate borne by the Securities shall be reduced to the original interest rate borne by the Securities. No increase in the rate shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective. All accrued additional interest shall be paid to Holders by the Company in the same manner as interest is paid pursuant to the Indenture. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Registration Rights Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate;
provided
that no Securities of this series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A RESTRICTED SECURITY: Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such Holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"). "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto).
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders
 
 
 
 
 
of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days;
provided, however
, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in
 
 
 
 
 
whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
By: _______________________
 
 
 
 
 
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK, as Trustee
By: ______________________
Authorized Signatory
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX I TO FIRST SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
EXCHANGE CERTIFICATE
VIACOM INC.
 
5.75% Senior Notes due 2011
6.25% Senior Notes due 2016
6.875% Senior Debentures due 2036
 
1515 Broadway
The Bank of New York
We, as the seller of the Notes ("
Seller
"), are requesting a transfer (tick one of the following) of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with such request, and in respect of such Securities, we, as the Seller do hereby certify that such Securities are being transferred in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the offering memorandum prepared in connection with the issuance of the Securities and the Securities and that we are transferring such Securities (tick one of the following):
[(ii)
        
at the time the buy order was originated, the Buyer was outside of the United States or the Seller or any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the Buyer was outside the United States;]
(1)
[(ii)
        
the transaction was executed in, or on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Seller nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a Buyer in the United States;]
(1)
(iii)
        
no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(a) or 904(a) of Regulation S, as applicable;
(iv)
         
the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
(v)
          
with regard to transfers occurring within the 40-Day Restricted Period, any beneficial interest in [Offshore Global 2011 Senior Notes / Offshore Global 2016 Senior Notes / Offshore Global 2036 Senior Debentures] shall be held through either Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg.
If none of the foregoing boxes are ticked, the Registrar shall not be obliged to register the transfer of the [2011 Senior Note / 2016 Senior Note / 2036 Senior Debenture].
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference is hereby made to the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006, between Viacom Inc. (the "
Company
") and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "
Trustee
"), to the Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee (the "
Indenture
"). Terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. Other terms shall have the meanings given to them in Regulation S.
 
                                                   
 
 
 
 
 
[NAME OF SELLER]
 
By:
                                          
 
Dated:
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FORM OF TRANSFER
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby transfers to
 
 
(PRINT NAME AND ADDRESS OF TRANSFEREE)
U.S.$_______ principal amount of this Security, and all rights with respect thereto, and irrevocably constitutes and appoints __________________ as attorney to transfer this Security on the books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution.
 
Certifying Signature
 
 
Note:
(i)
           
The signature on this transfer form must correspond to the name as it appears on the face of this Security.
(ii)
          
A representative of the holder of this Security should state the capacity in which he or she signs (e.g., executor).
(iii)
        
The signature of the person effecting the transfer shall conform to any list of duly authorized specimen signatures supplied by the registered holder or shall be certified by a recognized bank, notary public or in such other manner as the paying agent, acting in its capacity as transfer agent or the Trustee, acting in its capacity as registrar, may require.
 
 
 
 
 

EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
Dated as of April 12, 2006
 
among
 
VIACOM INC.
 
 
and
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC,
 
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.,
and
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.
as the Initial Purchasers
 
 
 
 
 
 
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into as of April 12, 2006, by and among VIACOM INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company") and BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC, CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. and J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC., in their respective capacities as initial purchasers and as representatives of each of the other initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers").
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement dated April 5, 2006, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the "Purchase Agreement"), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.75% senior notes due 2011 (the "2011 Senior Notes"), $1,500,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.25% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") and $1,750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 6.875% senior debentures due 2036 (the "2036 Senior Debentures" and, together with the 2011 Senior Notes and the 2016 Senior Notes, the "Senior Securities"; references to Senior Securities, Exchange Senior Securities and Registrable Senior Securities will be identically applicable to the 2011 Senior Notes, the 2016 Senior Notes and the 2036 Senior Debentures unless otherwise indicated herein). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligations thereunder, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their respective direct and indirect transferees and assigns the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.
            
Definitions
. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
"
1933 Act
" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
"
1934 Act
" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
"
Closing Time
" shall mean the Closing Time as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
"
Company
" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and also includes the Company's successors.
"
Depositary
" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, including any agent thereof;
provided, however
, that any such depositary must at all times have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York.
 
 
 
 
 
"
Exchange Offer
" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Senior Securities for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
"
Exchange Offer Registration
" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
"
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 covering the Registrable Senior Securities (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"
Exchange Senior Securities
" shall mean the securities issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Senior Securities (except that (i) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Senior Securities or, if no such interest has been paid, from the Closing Time, (ii) the transfer restrictions thereon shall be eliminated and (iii) certain provisions relating to an increase in the stated rate of interest thereon shall be eliminated) to be offered to Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in exchange for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Senior Securities will be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
"
Holders
" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Senior Securities, and each of their respective successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Senior Securities under the Indenture.
"
Indenture
" shall mean the Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and The Bank of New York, as trustee (the "Trustee") and as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
"
Initial Purchasers
" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
"
Majority Holders
" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Senior Securities outstanding;
provided
that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Senior Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Senior Securities held by the Company or any of its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) (other than the Initial Purchasers or subsequent holders of Registrable Senior Securities, if such subsequent holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holding of such Registrable Senior Securities) shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount.
"
NASD
" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.
"
Participating Broker-Dealer
" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(f).
 
 
 
 
 
"
Person
" shall mean an individual, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
"
Prospectus
" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
"
Purchase Agreement
" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
"
Registrable Senior Securities
" shall mean the Senior Securities;
provided, however
, that the Senior Securities shall cease to be Registrable Senior Securities when (i) a Registration Statement with respect to such Senior Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Senior Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) such Senior Securities shall have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iii) such Senior Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding or (iv) such Senior Securities have been exchanged for Exchange Senior Securities upon consummation of the Exchange Offer.
"
Registration Expenses
" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or NASD registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state or other securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with state or other securities or blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements, certificates representing the Exchange Senior Securities and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Exchange Senior Securities or such Registrable Senior Securities, covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, on any securities exchange or exchanges, (vi) all fees and disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the fees and expenses of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (viii) the fees and expenses of a "qualified independent underwriter" as defined by Conduct Rule 2720 of the NASD (if required by the NASD rules) in connection with the offering of the Registrable Senior Securities and the reasonable fees
 
 
 
and expenses of its counsel, (ix) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, any registrar, any depositary and paying agent, including their respective counsel, and any escrow agent or custodian, (x) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the Exchange Offer, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Initial Purchasers which shall be Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, (xi) the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel to the Holders which shall be Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, and (xii) in the case of an underwritten offering, any reasonable fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily required to be paid by issuers or sellers of such securities, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the underwriters, and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Registration Statement but excluding (except as otherwise provided herein) fees of counsel to the underwriters or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions and any transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Senior Securities by a Holder.
"
Registration Statement
" shall mean any registration statement of the Company relating to any offering of the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"
SEC
" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"
Shelf Registration
" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
"
Shelf Registration Statement
" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(b) of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Senior Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"
Trustee
" shall mean the trustee under the Indenture.
(a)
          
Exchange Offer Registration
. To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to consummate the Exchange Offer within 300 calendar days after the Closing Time. The Exchange Senior Securities will be issued under the Indenture, it being the objective of the Exchange Offer to enable each Holder (other than Participating Broker-Dealers (as defined in Section 3(f))) eligible and electing to exchange Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an affiliate of the Company within
 
 
 
the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, acquires the Exchange Senior Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Senior Securities) to trade such Exchange Senior Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States.
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i)
           
mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(ii)
          
keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 business days (or longer if required by applicable federal and state securities laws) after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders;
(iii)
        
use the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer with respect to Senior Securities evidenced by global certificates;
(iv)
         
permit Holders to withdraw tendered Registrable Senior Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York City time, on the last business day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Senior Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Senior Securities exchanged; and
(v)
          
otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable federal and state securities laws relating to the Exchange Offer.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i)
           
accept for exchange Registrable Senior Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which is an exhibit thereto;
(ii)
          
deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Senior Securities so accepted for exchange by the Company; and
(iii)
         
cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Senior Securities to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Senior Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
Interest on each Exchange Senior Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Senior Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no
 
 
 
interest has been paid on the Registrable Senior Securities, from the Closing Time. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer, (iii) that no law, rule or regulation or applicable interpretations of the staff of the SEC has been issued or promulgated which, in the good faith determination of the Company, does not permit the Company to effect the Exchange Offer and (iv) that the Holders tender the Registrable Senior Securities to the Company in accordance with the Exchange Offer.
Each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities (other than Participating Broker-Dealers) who wishes to exchange such Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that (i) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) of the Company or, if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the 1933 Act, to the extent applicable, (ii) any Exchange Senior Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (iii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Senior Securities or the Exchange Senior Securities, (iv) it is not acting on behalf of any person who could not truthfully make the foregoing representations and (v) it shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or another appropriate form under the 1933 Act available or for the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective. To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Senior Securities in the Exchange Offer.
(i)
           
If, because of any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Staff of the SEC, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2(a) hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 300 days after the Closing Time (
provided
that if the Exchange Offer shall be consummated after the date that is 300 days after the Closing Time, then the Company's obligations under this clause (ii) arising from the failure of the Exchange Offer to be consummated by the date that is 300 days after the Closing Time shall terminate), (iii) if any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) is not eligible to participate in the Exchange Offer or elects to participate in the Exchange Offer but does not receive fully tradeable Exchange Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer or (iv) upon the written request of any of the Initial Purchasers within 90 days following the consummation of the Exchange Offer;
provided
that such Initial Purchaser shall hold Registrable Senior Securities that it acquired directly from the Company and if such Initial Purchaser is not permitted, in the reasonable opinion of counsel to such Initial Purchaser, pursuant to applicable law or applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall, at its cost:
 
 
 
 
 
(A)
         
file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Senior Securities by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement;
(B)
         
use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than the 360th day after the Closing Time (or within 60 days of a request of any Initial Purchaser pursuant to Section 2(b)(iv) above, if later (the "Request Extension Period"));
provided
that, with respect to Exchange Senior Securities received by a broker-dealer in exchange for any securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the staff of the SEC, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Regulation S-K Items 507 and/or 508, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under paragraph (A) solely with respect to broker-dealers who acquired their Securities as a result of market-making or other trading activities, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement. In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement upon the request of any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) not eligible to participate in the Exchange Offer pursuant to clause (iii) above or upon the request of any Initial Purchaser pursuant to clause (iv) above, the Company shall file and use its reasonable best efforts to have declared effective by the SEC both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Senior Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Senior Securities held by such Holder or such Initial Purchaser, as applicable, after completion of the Exchange Offer;
(C)
         
use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years, plus any extensions as provided in Section 2(d)(iii) below, after its effective date or such shorter period which will terminate when all of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (i) have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) cease to be outstanding or (iii) become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1934 Act without volume restrictions; and
(D)
         
notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming a part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact
 
 
 
or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
provided,
however
, clauses (ii) and (iii) shall not apply to any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement.
The Company shall only permit Registrable Senior Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if reasonably requested by the Majority Holders with respect to information relating to the Holders and otherwise as required by Section 3(b) below, to use its reasonable best efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement to become usable as soon as practicable thereafter and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC.
(c)
          
Expenses
. The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Sections 2(a) and 2(b). Each Holder shall pay all expenses of its counsel other than as set forth in the preceding sentence, underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
(i)
           
The Company shall be deemed not to have used its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite periods set forth herein if the Company voluntarily takes any action that could reasonably be expected to result in any such Registration Statement not being declared effective or remaining effective or in the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Registrable Senior Securities during that period unless (A) such action is required by applicable law or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (but not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets or a material corporate transaction or event so long as the Company promptly complies with the requirements of Section 3(k) hereof, if applicable.
(ii)
          
An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof shall not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC;
provided, however
, that if, after it has been declared effective, the offering of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement shall be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume.
 
 
 
 
 
(iii)
        
During any 365-day period, the Company may suspend the availability of a Shelf Registration Statement and the use of the related Prospectus, as provided in Section 3(e)(vi) and the last paragraph of Section 3 hereof, for up to four periods of up to 45 consecutive days (except for the consecutive 45-day period immediately prior to maturity of the Senior Securities), but no more than an aggregate 90 days during any 365-day period, if any event shall occur (A) as set forth in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) as a result of which it shall be necessary, in the good faith determination of the board of directors of the Company, to amend the Shelf Registration Statement or amend or supplement any prospectus or prospectus supplement thereunder in order that each such document not include any untrue statement of fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made (a "Material Event Election"), provided that any period during which the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Senior Securities due to a Material Event Election (an "Election Period") shall be deemed to trigger the obligation of the Company to pay Additional Interest in accordance with Section 2(e) to the extent that such Election Period, together with all other days that the Shelf Registration Statement has become unusable in any consecutive twelve-month period, exceeds 90 days in the aggregate. The Two-Year Period provided for in Section 2(b)(B) above shall be extended by an amount of time equal to all such Election Periods.
(e)
          
Increase in Interest Rate
. In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 300th calendar day following the Closing Time, or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Senior Securities is not declared effective on or prior to the 360th calendar day after the Closing Time (or on or before the end of the Request Extension Period, if longer), or (iii) the Election Periods exceed, in the aggregate, 90 days during any 365-day period the per annum interest rate borne by the Registrable Senior Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum following such 300-day period in the case of clause (i) above, following such 360-day period (or Request Extension Period, if longer) in the case of clause (ii) above, or following such 90-day period in the case of clause (iii) above, which rate will be increased by an additional quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum for each 90-day period during which noncompliance continues;
provided
that the aggregate increase in such annual interest rate may in no event exceed one-half of one percent (0.50%) per annum. Upon (y) the consummation of the Exchange Offer after the 300-day period described in clause (i) above, or (z) the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement, after the 360-day period (or Request Extension Period, if longer) described in clause (ii) above, the interest rate borne by the Senior Securities from the date of such effectiveness or consummation, as the case may be, shall be reduced to the original interest rate if the Company is otherwise in compliance with this paragraph;
provided,
however
, that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different event specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above occurs, the interest rate shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. No increase in the rate under clause (i) above shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective.
(f)
           
Specific Enforcement
. Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Sections 2(a) and 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the
 
 
 
event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Sections 2(a) and 2(b).
3.
            
Registration Procedures
. In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2(a) and 2(b) hereof, the Company shall:
(a)
          
prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the time periods specified in Section 2, on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, be available for the sale of the Registrable Senior Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(b)
          
prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act; and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act with respect to the disposition of all Senior Securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof;
(c)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, at least 15 days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Senior Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Senior Securities will be made in accordance with the method elected by the Majority Holders; (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter, or their counsel, may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so reasonably requests, all exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Senior Securities; and (iii) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
(d)
          
use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Senior Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each
 
 
 
underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, to cooperate with the Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with the NASD, keep each such registration or qualification effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be effective and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Senior Securities owned by such Holder;
provided, however
, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d) or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction;
(e)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Senior Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to such offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Senior Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (vi) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective (including as contemplated in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof) which (A) is contemplated in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (vii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate;
(f)
           
(A) in the case of an Exchange Offer, (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a "Plan of Distribution" section covering the use of the Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by broker-dealers who have exchanged their Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities for the resale of such Exchange Senior Securities, (ii) furnish to each broker-dealer who desires to participate in the Exchange Offer, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such broker-dealer may reasonably request, (iii) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a statement
 
 
 
that any broker-dealer who holds Registrable Senior Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (a "Participating Broker-Dealer"), and who receives Exchange Senior Securities for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer, may be a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Senior Securities, (iv) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any broker-dealer in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Senior Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (v) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer the following provision:
"If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Senior Securities. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Senior Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Senior Securities, it represents that the Registrable Senior Securities to be exchanged for Exchange Senior Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act;"
(B)
         
to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be delivered at the request of an entity representing the Participating Broker-Dealers (which entity shall be J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., unless it elects not to act as such representative) any "cold comfort" letters with respect to the Prospectus in the form existing on the last date for which exchanges are accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offer and with respect to each subsequent amendment or supplement, if any, effected during the period specified in clause (C) below;
(C)
         
to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its reasonable best efforts to maintain the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of 180 days following the closing of the Exchange Offer or such shorter period which will terminate when the Participating Broker-Dealers have completed all resales subject to applicable prospectus delivery requirements; and
(D)
         
the Company shall not be required to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as would otherwise be contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof, or take any other action as a result of this
 
 
 
Section 3(f), for a period exceeding 180 days after the last date for which exchanges are accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offer (as such period may be extended by the Company) and Participating Broker-Dealers shall not be authorized by the Company to, and shall not, deliver such Prospectus after such period in connection with resales contemplated by this Section 3;
(g)
          
(i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Initial Purchasers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities copies of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
(h)
          
make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement as soon as practicable and provide immediate notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order;
(i)
           
in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(j)
           
in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Senior Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and cause such Registrable Senior Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request in writing at least one business day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Senior Securities;
(k)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Section 3(e)(vi) hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Senior Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company agrees to notify each Holder to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and each Holder hereby agrees to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such numbers of copies of the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
 
 
 
 
 
(l)
           
obtain CUSIP numbers, ISINs and common codes for all Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
(m)
         
(i) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), in connection with the registration of the Exchange Senior Securities, or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(n)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions (including those reasonably requested by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Senior Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Senior Securities and in such connection, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration, in a manner that is reasonable and customary:
(i)
           
make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
(ii)
          
obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinion (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Senior Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
(iii)
         
obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants addressed to the underwriters, if any, and will use reasonable best efforts to have such letters addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings;
(iv)
         
enter into a securities sales agreement with the Holders and an agent of the Holders providing for, among other things, the appointment of such agent for the selling Holders for the purpose of soliciting purchases of Registrable
 
 
 
Senior Securities, which agreement shall be in form, substance and scope customary for similar offerings;
(v)
          
if an underwriting agreement is entered into in the case of an underwritten offering, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 5 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 5 hereof; and
(vi)
         
deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the underwriters or the Holders and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings.
The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and, if appropriate, each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder. In the case of any underwritten offering, the Company shall provide written notice to the Holders of all Registrable Senior Securities of such underwritten offering at least thirty days prior to the filing of a prospectus supplement for such underwritten offering. Such notice shall (x) offer each such Holder the right to participate in such underwritten offering, (y) specify a date, which shall be no earlier than ten business days following the date of such notice, by which such Holder must inform the Company of its intent to participate in such underwritten offering and (z) include the instructions such Holder must follow in order to participate in such underwritten offering;
(o)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Senior Securities and any underwriters participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and any U.S. counsel or accountant retained by such Holders or underwriters, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such Persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement;
provided
that any such records, documents, properties and such information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such records, documents, properties or information shall be kept confidential by any such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant and shall be used only in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement, unless such information has become available (not in violation of this Agreement) to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality, and except that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant shall have no liability, and shall not be in breach of this provision, if disclosure of such confidential information is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, and the Company shall be entitled to request that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant sign a confidentiality agreement to the foregoing effect. Each such person will be required to agree that information obtained by it as a result of such inspections shall be deemed confidential and shall not be used by it as the basis for any market transactions in the
 
 
 
securities of the Company unless and until such is made generally available to the public through no fault or action of such person. Each selling Holder of such Registrable Senior Securities will be required to further agree that it will, upon learning that disclosure of confidential information is necessary, give notice to the Company to allow the Company at its expense to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the confidential information;
(p)
          
(i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, within a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers or their counsel may reasonably request; (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, within a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, to the Initial Purchasers, to counsel on behalf of the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities, if any, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as counsel to the Initial Purchasers, the Holders or any underwriter may reasonably request; and (iii) cause the representatives of the Company to be available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders or any underwriter, and shall not at any time make any filing of any such document of which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy or to which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall reasonably object within a reasonable time period;
(q)
          
in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Registrable Senior Securities to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders or by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering, unless the Registrable Senior Securities are already so rated;
(r)
           
otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least twelve months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; and
(s)
           
cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities to furnish to the Company or its counsel such information regarding such Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Senior Securities, as the Company
 
 
 
may from time to time reasonably request, and agree in writing to be bound by the Agreement, including the indemnification provisions.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections 2(d)(i) and 3(e)(ii)-(vii) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of (i) the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof or (ii) written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is once again effective and that no supplement or amendment is required. If so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Senior Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
If the Company shall give any such notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement as a result of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections 2(d)(i) and 3(e)(vi) hereof, the Company shall be deemed to have used its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during such period of suspension; provided that (i) such period of suspension shall not exceed the time periods provided in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof and (ii) the Company shall, if necessary, use its reasonable best efforts to file and have declared effective (if an amendment) as soon as practicable an amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement and shall extend the period during which the Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions.
4.
            
Underwritten Offerings
. If any of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
No Holder of Registrable Senior Securities may participate in any underwritten offering hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Senior Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
(a)
          
The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, each Holder, including Participating Broker-Dealers, each underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, their respective affiliates, and their
 
 
 
respective directors, officers, employees, agents, and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchaser, any Holder or any such controlling or affiliated Person in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof, pursuant to which Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or by or relating to any Holder or underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, in each case expressly for use therein.
(b)
          
Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Initial Purchaser, each underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers (including each director and officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement) and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser, any underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses described in the indemnity contained in Section 5(a), as incurred), but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof or any Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto.
(c)
          
In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) above, such Person (the "indemnified party") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "indemnifying party") in writing (but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party except to the extent it is materially prejudiced or harmed) and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the
 
 
 
named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for (a) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Initial Purchasers and all Persons, if any, who control any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, (b) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and all Persons, if any, who control the Company within the meaning of either such Section and (c) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Holders and all Persons, if any, who control any Holders within the meaning of either such Section, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. In the case of any such separate firm for the Initial Purchasers and such control Persons of the Initial Purchasers, such firm shall be designated in writing by J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. In the case of any such separate firm for the Holders and such Persons who control Holders, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders. In all other cases, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Company. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding affected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second and third sentences of this paragraph, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d)
          
If the indemnification provided for in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section 5 is unavailable to an indemnified party or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each indemnifying party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and of the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party or parties on the other
 
 
 
hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or parties or such indemnified party or parties, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The respective obligations of the Company, the Initial Purchasers, and the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several in proportion to the respective principal amounts of Senior Securities they have purchased hereunder, and not joint.
(e)
          
The Company, the Initial Purchasers, and each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities agree that it would not be just or equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which Registrable Senior Securities were sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 5, each Person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder, and each director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Senior Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
(a)
          
Rule 144 and Rule 144A
. For so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act, the Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder, that if it ceases to be so required to file
 
 
 
such reports, it will upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities (i) make publicly available or cause to be made publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (ii) deliver or cause to be delivered such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, and (iii) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its Registrable Senior Securities without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (x) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (y) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (z) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC. Upon the written request of any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, the Company will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
(b)
          
No Inconsistent Agreements
. The Company has not entered into nor will the Company on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
(c)
          
Amendments and Waivers
. The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the material provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders of the outstanding Registrable Senior Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
(d)
          
Notices
. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand-delivery, registered first-class mail, telecopier, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (i) if to a Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser), at the most current address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, (ii) if to an Initial Purchaser, at the most current address given by such Initial Purchaser to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d), which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and (iii) if to the Company, initially at the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d).
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
(e)
          
Successors and Assigns
. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without
 
 
 
limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Senior Securities in violation of the terms hereof or of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Senior Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Senior Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Senior Securities, such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
(f)
           
Third Party Beneficiary
. The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
(g)
          
Counterparts
. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
(h)
          
Headings
. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
(i)
           
GOVERNING LAW
. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF.
(j)
           
Severability
. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
VIACOM INC.
 
 
Name: George S. Nelson
 
 
 
Confirmed and Accepted,
 
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES, INC.
 
For itself and the other Initial Purchasers
named in Schedule A to this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULE A
INITIAL PURCHASERS
 
Banc of America Securities LLC
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc.
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc.
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities International plc
Daiwa Securities SMBC Europe Limited
Mizuho International plc
ABN AMRO Incorporated
Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein Securities LLC
RBS Greenwich Capital Markets, Inc.
SG Americas Securities, LLC
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC
 
 
 
 

VIACOM
>
news
 
VIACOM COMPLETES
PRIVATE PLACEMENT OF SENIOR NOTES AND DEBENTURES
 
NEW YORK, April 12, 2006  Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today announced the completion of a private placement of $4.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of senior notes and debentures comprised of $1.50 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior notes due 2011 (the "2011 Senior Notes"), $1.50 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.25% senior notes due 2016 (the "2016 Senior Notes") and $1.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of 6.875% senior debentures due 2036 (the "2036 Debentures" and, together with the 2011 Senior Notes and the 2016 Senior Notes, the "Senior Notes and Debentures") to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act, subject to market and other conditions.
 
Viacom intends to use the net proceeds of the offering to repay a portion of the amounts outstanding under its existing credit facilities.
 
The Senior Notes and Debentures have not been registered under the Securities Act, or any state securities laws, and unless so registered, may not be offered nor sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable securities laws. This news release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the Senior Notes and Debentures in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
 
About Viacom
 
Viacom is one of the leading global entertainment content companies, with prominent and respected brands in focused demographics. Offering programming and content for television, motion pictures and digital platforms, Viacom's world-class brands include MTV Networks (MTV, VH1, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Comedy Central, CMT: Country Music Television, Spike TV, TV Land, Logo and more than 100 networks around the world), BET, Paramount Pictures, Paramount Home Entertainment, DreamWorks SKG and Famous Music. More information about Viacom and its businesses is available at www.viacom.com.
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results and events. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others:
 
consumer acceptance of both future motion pictures and motion pictures in the Company's libraries;
 
competitive conditions in the marketplace for the Company's motion pictures;
 
the effects of technology and businesses enabled thereby and the impact of piracy on the Company's products. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and, under section 27A of the Securities Act and section 21E of the Exchange Act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
# # #
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
 
 


