FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20070510080727.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
Item 2.02    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 10, 2007, Viacom Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 10, 2007
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
New York, New York, May 10, 2007  Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Results
 
Revenues increased 16% to $2.75 billion in the first quarter of 2007. Operating income in the first quarter was $443 million, which includes the impact of approximately $56 million in Media Networks restructuring charges. Net earnings for the quarter were $203 million including the above restructuring charges on an after tax basis of $35 million. Diluted net earnings per share for the quarter were $0.29, or $0.34 excluding the Media Networks restructuring charges, down from $0.43 in 2006. A table found at the end of this release reconciles diluted net earnings per share excluding Media Networks restructuring charges to reported results.
Sumner M. Redstone, Executive Chairman of Viacom, said, "Viacom continues to successfully execute on its strategic plan and is making substantial progress on its path for long-term growth. With our robust portfolio of entertainment brands, we are well positioned to further expand our presence on all platforms around the world."
 
 
Philippe P. Dauman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, "Our first quarter results reflect our focused agenda to fully leverage creative and operating excellence across all of our businesses. We moved quickly to increase the efficiency of our domestic and international operations to invest in content and our digital initiatives. This will allow us to drive future growth while maintaining our overall margins. Also significant is the meaningful growth we experienced in worldwide advertising revenues, with solid increases across MTV Networks and BET Networks. These results reflect the continued strength of our brands and the early benefits of our new, more integrated, multi-platform sales organization.
"Furthering our rapid digital expansion, we announced a number of new partnerships with key industry players, such as Joost, Yahoo! and Sprint, which broadened our revenue opportunities on wireless and online platforms. Additionally, Paramount's 2007 slate is off to a solid start. Both in our digital activities and overall, we see our results building through the year."
Revenues
 
of $2.75 billion grew 16% from $2.37 billion in 2006. Media Networks revenues rose 10% to $1.73 billion from $1.57 billion in 2006, led by a 14% growth in affiliate revenues to $558 million. Worldwide advertising revenues were up 10% to $974 million from $886 million in 2006. Ancillary revenues increased 2% in the quarter to $201 million. Acquisitions contributed $40 million in net incremental revenues to the Media Networks segment in the quarter. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues were up 27% to $1.05 billion in the first quarter 2007. The acquisition of DreamWorks closed and the distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation commenced on January 31, 2006. For comparative purposes, these activities, and distribution of the DreamWorks live-action library contributed revenues of $101 million for the month of January 2007.
First quarter 2007 revenues
 
 
Operating Income
 
n/m = not meaningful
was down 29% to $443 million compared to 2006. The $20 million decline in operating income at the Media Networks segment was principally the result of a 19% growth in expenses, including restructuring charges of $56 million, higher programming amortization, selling and marketing expenses and stock based compensation expense partially offset by revenue growth of 10%. The decline in operating income at the Filmed Entertainment segment of $157 million was principally due to incremental domestic print and advertising costs of $170 million, or $236 million worldwide. The increase in Corporate expenses was driven by incremental stock based compensation expense of $11 million, partially offset by other cost reductions.
First quarter 2007 operating income
decreased to $203 million from $317 million in 2006. The decline was driven by lower operating income and incremental net interest expense of $25 million, partially offset by less tax expense of $90 million due to lower operating and pre-tax income and a 38% effective rate in 2007 as compared to 41% in 2006. Diluted net earnings per share for the quarter were $0.29, or $0.34 excluding the Media Networks restructuring charges, down from $0.43 in 2006. The decrease reflects lower net earnings, partially offset by fewer weighted average number of common shares outstanding due to the Company's stock repurchase program.
First quarter 2007 net earnings
 
 
Stock Repurchase Program
The Company has in place a $3.00 billion stock repurchase program. In the first quarter, 4.3 million shares were repurchased for an aggregate purchase price of $174 million. For the year through May 3, 2007, the Company acquired 6.3 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $40.80.
Debt
At March 31, 2007 total debt outstanding, including capital leases decreased to $7.38 billion, compared with $7.65 billion at December 31, 2006.
About Viacom
Viacom is a leading global entertainment content company, with prominent and respected brands. Engaging its audiences through television, motion pictures and digital platforms, Viacom seeks to reach its audiences however they consume content. Viacom's leading brands include the multiplatform properties of MTV Networks, including MTV: Music Television, VH1, CMT: Country Music Television, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, TV Land, and more than 130 networks around the world, as well as digital assets such as MTV.com, comedycentral.com, VSPOT, TurboNick, Neopets, Xfire and iFilm; BET Networks; Paramount Pictures; DreamWorks; and Famous Music. More information about Viacom and its businesses is available at .
www.viacom.com
 
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward-looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results and events. Similarly, statements that describe the Company's objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of the Company to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: advertising market conditions in cable programming markets worldwide and, in particular, for advertisements targeting demographics served by the Company's programming services; the public acceptance of and ratings for the Company's movies, cable television programs, digital services and other content; competition for advertising dollars from search and other online and wireless-based services and content providers; technological developments and their effect in the Company's markets and on consumer behavior; the Company's ability to successfully launch its programming services and other content to new distribution platforms; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations applicable to cable operations, including the possibility of mandatory  la carte programming; the impact of piracy on the Company's programming and films; the impact of increased scale in parties involved in the distribution of the Company's products and programming services to consumers; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the Company's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on March 1, 2007. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and, under Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table reconciles the Company's results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007 to adjusted results that exclude the impact of the Media Networks restructuring in the quarter. The Company uses adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share among other things, to evaluate the Company's operating performance in the absence of severance and other charges incurred in connection with a restructuring and for planning and forecasting of future periods. The Company believes that the segregation of the charges related to the Media Networks restructuring actions is relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, helps improve their ability to understand the Company's operating performance and makes it easier to compare the Company's results with other companies. Since adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted earnings per share are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings and diluted earnings per share as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
 


