FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20080729161359.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2.):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 29, 2008
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
New York, New York, July 29, 2008  Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008.
Second Quarter 2008 Results
 
 
 
Revenues grew 21% to $3.86 billion in the second quarter 2008 led by a 35% increase in Filmed Entertainment revenues. Operating income increased 13% versus a year ago to $792 million, or 11% over the prior year's adjusted results. Net earnings from continuing operations declined 6% to $406 million with diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.64, which compares with second quarter 2007 results that include the net impact of the gain on the sale of MTV Russia and restructuring and impairment charges. Net earnings from continuing operations rose 10% and diluted EPS from continuing operations grew 19% to $0.64 compared with the adjusted second quarter 2007 results. Adjustments are detailed in the Supplemental Disclosures at the end of this release.
Sumner M. Redstone, Executive Chairman of Viacom, said, "The strength of our brands, the breadth of our portfolio and the proactive measures of our management team have helped Viacom deliver solid results overall in the second quarter. Viacom has a strong financial position and we continue to build value for shareholders through our ongoing share repurchase program."
Philippe Dauman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, "Viacom delivered strong top and bottom line results in the second quarter despite the challenges of a weakening economy and its impact on advertiser spending. The advantages of our growing multiple revenue streams were evident in the quarter, as we delivered double-digit growth in both our affiliate and ancillary revenues, led by the top-selling music video game. We are just beginning to develop this new franchise, which already has the largest music catalog of any music video
Rock Band
game and 18 million songs downloaded since launch. The recently announced will build on this success and should produce meaningful bottom-line results next year.
Rock Band 2
"Paramount continues to excel at the box office, generating $1 billion in both domestic and international receipts in record time this year and delivering significantly higher operating income. Driving Filmed Entertainment results in the quarter were such global hits as , DreamWorks Animation's and the latest new franchise released by Paramount, . Looking ahead, with a robust slate of films scheduled for release and in development, Paramount is poised for continued long-term growth.
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull
Kung Fu Panda
Iron Man
"We will continue to take appropriate steps to adjust our cost structure while maintaining our investment in new programming that will drive future revenue growth. As a result of these efforts, we will be extremely well positioned to capitalize on the opportunities that will emerge as economic conditions improve."
Revenues
 
 
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
of $3.86 billion grew 21% from $3.19 billion in 2007. Media Networks revenues increased 11% to $2.14 billion led by worldwide ancillary revenue growth of 62% to $307 million, primarily driven by strong sales of . Worldwide affiliate revenues increased 12% to $656 million. Worldwide advertising revenues grew 2% to $1.17 billion and domestic advertising revenues increased 1%, reflecting the impact of softness in the overall domestic ad market. Filmed Entertainment revenues grew 35% to $1.77 billion in the quarter driven by an 84% increase in theatrical revenues. This growth was primarily due to the box office success of Marvel's and DreamWorks Animation's Home entertainment revenues grew by 12% due to higher third-party distribution revenues and increased revenues from catalog titles, driven by the reissue of the first three films. Television license fees rose 4% and ancillary revenues grew 35%, primarily due to an increase in licensing and merchandising revenues from .
Second Quarter 2008 revenues
Rock Band
Iron Man, Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull
Kung Fu Panda.
Indiana Jones
Transformers
Operating Income
 
 
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
increased 13% to $792 million versus $702 million in the second quarter of 2007. Media Networks operating income grew 4% to $765 million, including a one-percentage point benefit related to prior year restructuring charges. Operating income was impacted by higher expenses in the current quarter, principally related to distribution and marketing costs for and programming amortization costs.
Second Quarter 2008 operating income
Rock Band
 
Operating income for the Filmed Entertainment segment increased $64 million to $86 million in the second quarter due to the success of as well as the mix and timing of theatrical releases.
Iron Man
of $407 million decreased $27 million, or 6% from 2007 reported results, which included the impact of the gain on the sale of MTV Russia. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.65, a 3% increase over reported EPS of $0.63 in the second quarter of 2007. Diluted EPS from continuing operations were up 19% over the prior year's adjusted results, reflecting operating income growth, a lower effective tax rate and fewer shares outstanding pursuant to the Company's stock repurchase program.
Second Quarter 2008 net earnings
Business Outlook
For the three-year period from 2008 through 2010, Viacom expects to deliver low double-digit annual growth in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. This outlook is based on adjusted earnings and reflects growth from 2007 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.36.
Stock Repurchase Program
For the quarter ended June 30, 2008, 12.2 million shares were repurchased for an aggregate purchase price of $446 million. As of July 28, 2008, the Company has $1.6 billion remaining in its existing $4 billion share repurchase program.
Debt
At June 30, 2008, total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, increased to $9.24 billion, compared with $8.25 billion at December 31, 2007.
About Viacom
Viacom, consisting of BET Networks, MTV Networks and Paramount Pictures, is the world's leading entertainment content company. It engages audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the world's best known entertainment brands, including MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, Rock Band, Nickelodeon, Noggin, Nick at Nite, AddictingGames, Neopets, COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, TV Land, Atom, Gametrailers, BET, Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Vantage. Viacom's global reach includes approximately 160 channels and 340 online properties in 160 countries and territories.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements, including Business Outlook, which are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: advertising market conditions; the public acceptance of and ratings for the Company's feature films, programs, digital services and other content, as well as related advertisements; competition for advertising dollars; technological developments and their effect in the Company's markets and on consumer behavior; fluctuations in the Company's results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Company's programming, films and other content; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; the impact of piracy; the impact of increased scale in parties involved in the distribution and aggregation of the Company's products and program services to consumers and advertisers; the impact of union activity; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to the Company's 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's results for the six months ended June 30, 2008 and the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2007 to adjusted results that exclude the impact of impairments of minority investments, Media Networks restructuring activities and a realized gain on the sale of the Company's non-controlling investment in MTV Russia. The Company uses adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS among other things, to evaluate the Company's operating performance in the absence of these items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. The Company believes that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, improves their ability to understand the Company's operating performance and makes it easier to compare the Company's results with other companies. Since adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Company's business outlook is based on 2007 adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $2.36. The following table reconciles the Company's results for the full year ended December 31, 2007 to the adjusted results that exclude the impact of restructuring activities, the realized gain on the sale of the Company's non-controlling interest in MTV Russia, an impairment charge associated with the write-down of Amp'd Mobile and net discrete tax benefits.
 
 
 
 


