FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20091103075611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
On November 3, 2009, Viacom Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits.  The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:   November 3, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
New York, NY, November 3, 2009  Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today reported a 14% increase in operating income and a 24% rise in adjusted net earnings for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009, with growth in Filmed Entertainment and Media Networks.
2009 Results
 
(1)
Adjusted measures referenced in this release are detailed in the Supplemental Disclosures at the end of this release.
During the third quarter 2009, Viacom revenues decreased 3% to $3.32 billion, primarily reflecting lower home entertainment and advertising sales, which more than offset increases in affiliate sales and theatrical revenues. The gain in operating income in the quarter was driven primarily by an $88 million increase in the Filmed Entertainment segment. Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom were $421 million, up 24% over the third quarter 2008 results, with adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.69, a 25% increase over the prior year's results.
Sumner M. Redstone, Executive Chairman of Viacom, said, "As we enter a period of economic recovery, Viacom is already beginning to reap the benefits of a highly focused and well executed strategy. With our strong brands and growing global footprint, we are well positioned to capitalize on future opportunities."
Philippe Dauman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, "We continued to take a number of actions to strengthen our financial position, tighten our operations and improve execution across our businesses. The third quarter proved to be an opportune time to extend our long-term debt maturities at favorable rates, which allowed us to further strengthen our balance sheet. We continue to build on our leadership position in the cable networks business by strengthening our brands and working closely with our marketing partners to develop
comprehensive, multiplatform solutions. A stronger programming slate drove ratings gains at several core networks and MTV delivered another record-setting And fans young and old have come together to celebrate .
Video Music Awards.
The Beatles: Rock Band
"At Paramount, the release of late in the second quarter coupled with the mid-summer release of continued to draw audiences into theatres, driving the studio's theatrical revenues and positioning us well for fourth quarter DVD sales."
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra
Revenues
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
of $3.32 billion declined 3% from $3.41 billion in 2008. Media Networks revenues were essentially flat at $2.12 billion, with solid growth in affiliate sales offset by lower advertising and ancillary revenues. Worldwide affiliate revenues grew 10% in the quarter. Domestic advertising revenues were down 4%, which is a 2-percentage point sequential improvement over the second quarter 2009 results. Worldwide advertising revenues declined 5%. Strong sales of video game were offset by lower home entertainment and consumer products revenues, resulting in a 3% decrease in worldwide ancillary revenues. Filmed Entertainment revenues were down 6% year-over-year to $1.22 billion as weakness in home entertainment sales more than offset growth in theatrical revenues. and fueled a 16% increase in worldwide theatrical revenues. Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased 21%, which primarily reflects a difficult comparison with the strong performance of the DVD release of in the third quarter of 2008. Television license fees were down 8% in the quarter.
Third Quarter 2009 revenues
The Beatles: Rock Band
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra
Iron Man
Operating Income
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
(1)
Adjustments, which affect the nine-month period, are detailed in the Supplemental Disclosures at the end of this release.
increased 14% to $784 million compared with $689 million in the third quarter of 2008. This result was driven by the Filmed Entertainment segment which swung from a loss in the previous year to a $69 million profit in the third quarter of 2009, reflecting the strong performance of and the positive impact of the 2008 restructuring and other cost-saving initiatives. Media
Third Quarter 2009 operating income
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
 
Networks operating income grew 2% to $773 million, reflecting continued growth in affiliate revenues as well as the benefits from the 2008 restructuring and other cost-saving initiatives.
increased $82 million, or 24%, to $421 million, principally due to higher operating income. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.69, a 25% increase over $0.55 in the third quarter of 2008. These results exclude the favorable impact of discrete tax benefits as well as an after-tax loss related to the extinguishment of debt in the quarter.
Third Quarter 2009 adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom
Debt
At September 30, 2009, total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, decreased to $6.85 billion, compared with $8.00 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company's cash balances decreased to $249 million at September 30, 2009 compared with $792 million at December 31, 2008.
About Viacom
Viacom, consisting of BET Networks, MTV Networks and Paramount Pictures, is the world's leading entertainment content company. It engages audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the world's best known entertainment brands, including MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Nick Jr., COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, TV Land, BET, Rock Band, AddictingGames, Atom, Neopets, Shockwave and Paramount Pictures. Viacom's global reach includes approximately 170 channels and 400 online properties in more than 160 countries and territories.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the worsening of current economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; the public acceptance of the Company's programs, motion pictures and games on the various platforms on which they are distributed; competition for audiences and distribution; technological developments and their effect in the Company's markets and on consumer behavior; fluctuations in the Company's results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Company's motion pictures and games; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; the impact of piracy; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables reconcile the Company's results for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to adjusted results that exclude the impact of severance charges, an impairment charge of a minority investment, early extinguishment of debt and net discrete tax benefits. The Company uses adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted EPS as applicable, among other measures, to evaluate the Company's operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. The Company believes that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, improves their ability to understand the Company's operating performance and makes it easier to compare the Company's results with other companies. Since adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted EPS are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
Consolidated Results
 
 
Consolidated Results, con't.
 
 
 
There were no adjustments to operating income in the quarter ended September 30, 2009 or in the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2008.
Segment Results
 
 
 


