FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20090826164938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
On August 26, 2009, Viacom Inc. (the "Company") issued and sold $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Senior Notes due 2014 and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.625% Senior Notes due 2019 (together, the "Senior Notes") pursuant to the Company's effective registration statement on Form S-3 (Registration Statement No. 333-139086) previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Registration Statement"). A copy of the opinion of Shearman & Sterling LLP relating to the legality of the Senior Notes is filed as Exhibit 5.1 to this Report. In connection with the issuance and sale of the Senior Notes, on August 26, 2009, the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee"), entered into a fifth supplemental indenture (the "Fifth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee. The Fifth Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Report.
 
The Company incorporates by reference the exhibits filed herewith into the Registration Statement, pursuant to which the Senior Notes were registered.
 
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
-2-
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: August 26, 2009
 
 
-3-
 
Exhibit Index
 
 
 
 
 
 
-4-
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of August 26, 2009, between VIACOM INC., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "
Trustee
") to the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 16, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 13, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, and as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of October 5, 2007, between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented and as supplemented hereby, the "
Indenture
").
RECITALS OF THE COMPANY
WHEREAS, Section 901(5) of the Indenture permits supplements thereto without the consent of Holders of Securities to change any provisions of the Indenture with respect to a series of Securities, where there are no Securities Outstanding which are entitled to the benefit of such provision; and
WHEREAS, as contemplated by Section 301 of the Indenture, the Company intends to issue from time to time two new series of Securities, consisting of 4.375% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "
2014 Senior Notes
") and 5.625% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "
2019 Senior Notes
" and together with the 2014 Senior Notes, the "
Senior Notes
") under the Indenture;
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, each party agrees as follows, for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Senior Notes:
SECTION 1.    For the purpose of this Fifth Supplemental Indenture, all terms used herein, unless otherwise defined, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture, as supplemented hereby.
SECTION 2.    The Company shall issue the 2014 Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 and the 2019 Senior Notes in an aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000. The forms of the 2014 Senior Notes and the 2019 Senior Notes are set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit B hereto, respectively. The 2014 Senior Notes and the 2019 Senior Notes shall include the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A and Exhibit B hereto, respectively, substantially in the form so set forth, except to the extent otherwise provided herein.
 
1
 
SECTION 3.    The 2014 Senior Notes and the 2019 Senior Notes shall each be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global Senior Notes, in registered form substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A and Exhibit B hereto, respectively (respectively, the "
Global Securities
"), registered in the name of the nominee of The Depository Trust Company, as U.S. Depositary, deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in Section 303 of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee, in accordance with the instructions given by the Holder thereof, as hereinafter provided.
 
SECTION 4.   For the sole benefit of the holders of the 2014 Senior Notes and the 2019 Senior Notes, Section 1101 of the Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following Section 1101:
SECTION 1101.
Optional Redemption of Senior Notes
. The Senior Notes will be redeemable, in accordance with this Article Eleven, at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date). The Make-Whole Amount with respect to such a redemption shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If the Company fails to so appoint an independent investment banking institution at least 30 Business Days prior to the Redemption Date, or if such institution is unwilling or unable to calculate the Make-Whole Amount, the calculation of such Make-Whole Amount shall be made by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Trustee. If, for purposes of calculating the Make-Whole Amount, the Reinvestment Rate shall not be available as set forth in the definition thereof, the Reinvestment Rate shall be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution.
For purposes of this Section 1101, the term "Make-Whole Amount" means the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate described below (determined on the third business day preceding the Redemption Date) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of such Senior Notes.
For purposes of this Section 1101, the term "Reinvestment Rate" means (i) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 (or any comparable successor
 
2
 
publication) under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to Maturity, as of the payment date of the principal being redeemed or paid, plus (ii) 0.35%. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the Maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the Maturity shall be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate shall be interpolated or extrapolated on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount shall be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
 
SECTION 5.   For the sole benefit of the holders of the Senior Notes, Section 101 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following definitions, each in appropriate alphabetical order:
"Below Investment Grade Rating Event" with respect to the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes means that such respective series of Senior Notes become rated below Investment Grade by all of the Rating Agencies on any date from the date of the public notice of an arrangement that results in a Change of Control until the end of the 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control (which period shall be extended so long as the rating of such series of Senior Notes is under publicly announced consideration for possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies); provided that a Below Investment Grade Rating Event otherwise arising by virtue of a particular reduction in rating shall not be deemed to have occurred in respect of a particular Change of Control (and thus shall not be deemed a Below Investment Grade Rating Event for purposes of the definition of Change of Control Repurchase Event hereunder) if the Rating Agencies making the reduction in rating to which this definition would otherwise apply do not announce or publicly confirm or inform the Trustee in writing at its request that the reduction was the result, in whole or in part, of any event or circumstance comprised of or arising as a result of, or in respect of, the applicable Change of Control (whether or not the applicable Change of Control shall have occurred at the time of the Below Investment Grade Rating Event).
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following:
 
 
3
 
which is that any "person" (individually and as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) and Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act), other than the Company, one of its subsidiaries or Redstone Family Members, becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, and following such transaction or transactions, Redstone Family Members beneficially own less than 50% of the Voting Stock of the Company, in each case, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; or
As used in this definition of "Change of Control," an "Affiliate" of the Company means any Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company, or directly or indirectly controlled by a Redstone Family Member, and "Voting Stock," as applied to stock of any Person, means shares, interests, participations or other equivalents in the equity interest (however designated) in such Person having ordinary voting power for the election of a majority of the directors (or the equivalent) of such Person, other than shares, interests, participations or other equivalents having such power only by reason of the occurrence of a contingency.
"Change of Control Offer" has the meaning assigned in Section 1108.
"Change of Control Price" has the meaning assigned in Section 1108.
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" in respect of the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Below Investment Grade Rating Event in respect of such series of Senior Notes.
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Board of Directors of the Company who:
 
4
 
"Investment Grade" means a rating of Baa3 or better by Moody's (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Moody's), BBB- or better by S&P (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of S&P) or BBB- or better by Fitch (or its equivalent under any successor rating categories of Fitch) (or, in each case, if such Rating Agency ceases to rate the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes, as the case may be, for reasons outside of the Company's control, the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any Rating Agency selected by the Company as a replacement Rating Agency).
"Redstone Family Members" includes only the following persons: (i) Mr. Sumner Redstone, (ii) the estate of Mr. Redstone; (iii) each descendant of Mr. Redstone or spouse or former spouse of Mr. Redstone and their respective estates, guardians, conservators or committees; (iv) any spouse or former spouse of Mr. Redstone; (v) each "Family Controlled Entity" (as defined below); and (vi) the trustees, in their respective capacities as such, of each "Family Controlled Trust" (as defined below). The term "Family Controlled Entity" means (i) any not-for-profit corporation if more than 50% of its board of directors is composed of Redstone Family Members; (ii) any other corporation if more than 50% of the value of its outstanding equity is owned by Redstone Family Members; (iii) any partnership if more than 50% of the value of its partnership interests are owned by Redstone Family Members; and (iv) any limited liability or similar company if more than 50% of the value of the company is owned by Redstone Family Members. The term "Family Controlled Trust" includes certain trusts existing on August 19, 2009 and any other trusts the primary beneficiaries of which are Redstone Family Members, spouses of Redstone Family Members and/or charitable organizations, provided that if the trust is a wholly charitable trust, more than 50% of the trustees of such trust consist of Redstone Family Members.
"Fitch" means Fitch Ratings, Ltd.
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
"Rating Agency" means:
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
 
5
 
SECTION 6.   For the sole benefit of the holders of the Senior Notes, the following Section 1108 is hereby added to the Indenture:
SECTION 1108.
Change of Control
. (a) Upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event in respect of the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes, the Company shall make an offer to each holder of 2014 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof) of such holder's 2014 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes pursuant to the offer described in this Section 1108 (the "Change of Control Offer") at a purchase price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount thereof plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of purchase (the "Change of Control Price"). Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event in respect of the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes, at the option of the Company, prior to any Change of Control, but after the public announcement of the Change of Control, the Company shall mail a notice to each holder describing the transaction or transactions that constitute or may constitute the Change of Control Repurchase Event and offering to repurchase the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes, as the case may be, on the payment date specified in the notice, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 60 days from the date such notice is mailed. The notice shall, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the offer to repurchase is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the payment date specified in the notice.
(b)       The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Exchange Act and any other securities laws and regulations to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Senior Notes, the Company shall comply with the applicable securities laws and regulations and shall not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Repurchase Event provisions of the Senior Notes by virtue of such conflict.
(c)       On the Change of Control Repurchase Event payment date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
6
 
stating the aggregate principal amount of the 2014 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes being purchased by the Company.
(d)       The Paying Agent shall promptly pay, from funds deposited by the Company for such purpose, to each holder of 2014 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes properly tendered the purchase price for the 2014 Senior Notes or the 2019 Senior Notes, and the Trustee shall promptly authenticate and mail (or cause to be transferred by book-entry) to each holder a new note equal in principal amount to any unpurchased portion of 2014 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes surrendered.
(e)       The Company shall not be required to make an offer to repurchase the 2014 Senior Notes or 2019 Senior Notes upon a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and such third party purchases all 2014 Senior Notes and 2019 Senior Notes properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
SECTION 7.   For the sole benefit of the holders of the Senior Notes, the following Section 305A is hereby added to the Indenture:
SECTION 305A.
Book-Entry Provisions for Global Securities
. (a) Each Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be delivered to the Trustee, as custodian for such Depositary, and (iii) bear legends as set forth on the face of the form of the 2014 Senior Note or of the form of the 2019 Senior Note, as applicable.
Members of, or Participants in, the Depositary ("
Agent Members
") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
(b)       Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their respective nominees. Transfers of interests in one Global Security to parties who will hold the interests through the same Global Security will be effected in the ordinary way in accordance with the rules and operating procedures of the applicable Depositary. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" of Euroclear and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to interests in the Global Securities that are held by Agent Members through Euroclear and Clearstream.
 
7
 
(c)       Any beneficial interest in one of the Global Securities that is transferred to a person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another Global Security will, upon transfer, cease to be an interest in such Global Security and become an interest in such other Global Security and, accordingly, will thereafter be subject to all transfer restrictions, if any, and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in such other Global Security for so long as it remains such an interest.
(d)       In connection with any transfer of a portion of the interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 305A, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the interest in such Global Security to be transferred.
(e)       In connection with the transfer of the Global Securities, in whole, to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 305A, the Global Securities shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
(f)        The registered holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any person, including Agent Members and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Senior Notes.
(g)       The Senior Notes are initially solely issuable as Global Securities. Registered Securities shall be physically transferred to all beneficial owners in definitive form in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Security, if the Depositary with respect to such Global Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security, as the case may be, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice.
(h)       All Senior Notes issued upon any transfer or exchange of Senior Notes shall be valid, legally enforceable obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Senior Notes surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
SECTION 8.   THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
SECTION 9.   This Fifth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 10. Except as herein amended with respect to the Senior Notes, all applicable terms, conditions and provisions of the Indenture, as supplemented, shall continue in full force and effect and shall remain binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
 
8
 
SECTION 11. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture. The recitals and statements herein are deemed to be those of the Company and not of the Trustee.
 
9
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Fifth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed and attested, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
 
10
 
EXHIBIT A TO FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
 
A
-
1
 
VIACOM INC.
4.375% Senior Note due 2014
CUSIP: 92553PAE2
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                on September 15, 2014 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on March 15, 2010 and semiannually thereafter, on March 15 and September 15 in each year, from August 26, 2009, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 4.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, shall be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
provided
,
however
, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Second
 
A
-
2
 
 
 
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 13, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 5, 2007 between the Company and the Trustee and as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 26, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 4.375% Senior Notes due 2014, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $600,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $
                  
of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal U.S. national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if they are not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion deems to be fair and appropriate; provided that no Securities of this
 
A-3
 
 
 
series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days;
provided, however
, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and
 
A-4
 
 
 
unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York Mellon, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
A-5
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
 
 
A
-
6
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
A-7
 
EXHIBIT B TO FIFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE
 
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
 
B-1
 
VIACOM INC.
5.625% Senior Note due 2019
CUSIP: 92553PAD4
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                on September 15, 2019 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on March 15, 2010 and semiannually thereafter, on March 15 and September 15 in each year, from August 26, 2009, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 5.625% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, shall be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts;
provided
,
however
, that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Second
 
B-2
 
 
 
Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 13, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 5, 2007 between the Company and the Trustee and as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 26, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 5.625% Senior Notes due 2019, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $
                 
of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal U.S. national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if they are not listed on a U.S. national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion deems to be fair and appropriate; provided that no Securities of this
 
B-3
 
 
 
series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days;
provided, however
, that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and
 
B-4
 
 
 
unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York Mellon, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
B-5
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
 
 
B-6
 
TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
 
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
 
 
B-7
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
[LETTERHEAD OF SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP]
 
August 26, 2009
The Board of Directors
Viacom Inc.
1515 Broadway
New York, New York 10036
 
Viacom Inc.
 
$600,000,000 4.375% Senior Notes due 2014
$250,000,000 5.625% Senior Notes due 2019
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as counsel to Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "
Company
"), in connection with the issuance and sale by the Company of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.375% Senior Notes due 2014 (the "
2014 Senior Notes
") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 5.625% Senior Notes due 2019 (the "
2019 Senior Notes
" and, together with the 2014 Senior Notes, the "
Securities
") pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of August 19, 2009 (the "
Underwriting Agreement
"), between the Company and the Underwriters named therein. The Securities are to be issued as separate series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "
Base Indenture
") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "
Trustee
"), as supplemented by a first supplemental indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 (the "
First Supplemental Indenture
"), as further supplemented by a second supplemental indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 (the "
Second Supplemental Indenture
"), as further supplemented by a third supplemental indenture dated as of December 13, 2006 (the "
Third Supplemental Indenture
"), as further supplemented by a fourth supplemental indenture dated as of October 5, 2007 (the "
Fourth Supplemental Indenture
") and as further supplemented by a fifth supplemental indenture dated as of August 26, 2009 (the "
Fifth Supplemental Indenture
" and, together with the First Supplemental Indenture, the Second Supplemental Indenture, the Third Supplemental Indenture, the Fourth Supplemental Indenture and the Base Indenture, the "
Indenture
").
 
In that connection, we have reviewed originals or copies of the following documents:
 
 
 
 
The documents described in the foregoing clauses (a) through (c) are collectively referred to herein as the "
Opinion Documents
."
In our review of the Opinion Documents and other documents, we have assumed:
 
 
 
(c)          the conformity to authentic originals of any documents submitted to us as copies.
 
(d)          as to matters of fact, the truthfulness of the representations made in the Underwriting Agreement and the other Opinion Documents and in certificates of public officials and officers of the Company.
 
(e)          that each of the Opinion Documents is the legal, valid and binding obligation of each party thereto, other than the Company, enforceable against each such party in accordance with its terms.
 
(f)           that the execution, delivery and performance by the Company of the Opinion Documents to which it is a party do not:
 
(A)      except with respect to Generally Applicable Law, violate any law, rule or regulation applicable to it; or
 
(B)      result in any conflict with or breach of any agreement or document binding on it of which any addressee hereof has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know.
 
(g)           Except with respect to Generally Applicable Law, no authorization, approval, consent or other action by, and no notice to or filing with, any governmental authority or regulatory body or (to the extent the same is required under any agreement or document binding on it of which an addressee has knowledge, has received notice or has reason to know) any other third party is required for the due execution, delivery or performance by the Company of any Opinion Document to which it is a party or, if any such authorization, approval, consent, action, notice or filing is required, it has been duly obtained, taken, given or made and is in full force and effect.
 
 
We have not independently established the validity of the foregoing assumptions.
 
"
Generally Applicable Law
" means the federal law of the United States of America, and the law of the State of New York (including the rules or regulations promulgated thereunder or pursuant thereto), that a New York lawyer exercising customary professional diligence would reasonably be expected to recognize as being applicable to the Company, the Opinion Documents or the transactions governed by the Opinion Documents, and for purposes of our assumption paragraphs (f) and (g) above and our opinion below, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing definition of Generally Applicable Law, the term "Generally Applicable Law" does not include any law, rule or regulation that is applicable to the Company, the Opinion Documents or such transactions solely because such law, rule or regulation is part of a regulatory regime applicable to any party to any of the Opinion Documents or any of its affiliates due to the specific assets or business of such party or such affiliate.
 
Based upon the foregoing and upon such other investigation as we have deemed necessary and subject to the qualifications set forth below, we are of the opinion that the Securities have been duly authorized and executed by the Company and, when authenticated by the Trustee in accordance with the Indenture and delivered and paid for as provided in the Underwriting Agreement, the Securities will be legal, valid and binding obligations of the Company enforceable against the Company in accordance with their terms and entitled to the benefits of the Indenture.
Our opinion expressed above is subject to the effect of (a) any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally (including without limitation all laws relating to fraudulent transfers) and (b) general principles of equity, including without limitation concepts of materiality, reasonableness, good faith and fair dealing (regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law).
 
Our opinion is limited to Generally Applicable Law, and we do not express any opinion herein concerning any other law.
 
This opinion letter is rendered to you in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Opinion Documents. This opinion letter may not be relied upon by you for any other purpose without our prior written consent.
This opinion letter speaks only as of the date hereof. We expressly disclaim any responsibility to advise you of any development or circumstance of any kind, including any change of law or fact, that may occur after the date of this opinion letter that might affect the opinions expressed herein.
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter as an exhibit to the Current Report on Form 8-K dated the date hereof filed by the Company and incorporated by reference into the Registration Statement on Form S-3ASR (File No. 333-139086) filed by the Company to effect the registration of the Securities under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "
Securities Act
") and to the use of our name under the heading "Legal Matters" in the prospectus
 
constituting a part of such Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
promulgated thereunder.
 
Very truly yours,
/s/ SHEARMAN & STERLING LLP
 
 
 


