FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20090728075909.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
On July 28, 2009, Viacom Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)        Exhibits. The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2009
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
New York, NY, July 28, 2009  Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today reported financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009.
2009 Results
 
Revenues for the second quarter of 2009 totaled $3.30 billion, a 14% decline from $3.86 billion in the second quarter of 2008. This decrease reflects lower revenues in both the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments as weak economic conditions continued to impact certain business sectors. Operating income declined 26% to $586 million primarily as a result of lower year-over-year revenues, which more than offset a $352 million net reduction in expenses in the quarter. Excluding the impact of Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment severance charges, adjusted operating income decreased 22% to $619 million. Reported net earnings attributable to Viacom declined 32% versus a year ago to $277 million, or 27% on an adjusted basis. Excluding $0.03 in severance charges, adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) were $0.49, a 23% decline versus the second quarter of 2008. The adjustments are detailed in the Supplemental Disclosures at the end of this release.
Sumner M. Redstone, Executive Chairman of Viacom, said, "As the leading pure-play content company, Viacom has the right portfolio of assets and the right vision to manage through this challenging climate while we continue to position ourselves for future growth."
Philippe Dauman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, "While the global economy continued to be a challenge in the second quarter, the diversity of our revenue streams, sequential improvement in our domestic advertising sales, our generation of cash and our operational discipline all helped to temper the short-term impact. As we look to a longer-term recovery, we continue to manage costs aggressively and make changes in the business that will better position Viacom for growth. Importantly, our efforts to reinvigorate our cable networks' creative machine are generating positive results, with ratings trends improving across our key networks and record-breaking results for several of our tentpole events, including the and .
MTV Movie Awards
BET Awards 09
"Paramount Pictures' performance in the second quarter was highlighted by the box office success of its tentpole films and Both films are unqualified blockbusters that will generate substantial profit as they move through their windows."
STAR TREK
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.
Revenues
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
of $3.30 billion declined 14% from $3.86 billion in 2008. Media Networks revenues decreased 8% to $1.97 billion, principally due to a 41% decline in ancillary revenues driven by lower sales of the music video game . Domestic advertising revenues decreased 6%, which represents a 3-percentage point sequential improvement over the first quarter 2009 results. Worldwide advertising revenues were down 8%, reflecting continued softness in the international advertising marketplace. Worldwide affiliate revenues grew 9%, including double-digit growth in the U.S. Filmed Entertainment revenues decreased 22% to $1.38 billion, primarily due to lower theatrical and home entertainment revenues. The strong box office performance of and the first seven days of was not enough to surpass the results of and in the second quarter of 2008, which resulted in a 27% decline in theatrical revenues to $584 million. Home entertainment revenues were down 29% to $435 million. This result reflects a difficult comparison with the strong sales of the trilogy on DVD in the prior year as well as ongoing softness in the overall retail sector. Television license fees were up 5% to $314 million in the second quarter.
Second Quarter 2009 revenues
Rock Band
STAR TREK
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
Iron Man
Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull
Indiana Jones
Operating Income
 
N/M = Not Meaningful
decreased 26% to $586 million, including the impact of $33 million in severance charges, compared with $792 million in the second quarter of 2008. Media Networks operating income declined 12% to $671 million, reflecting lower advertising revenues, losses associated with due to the soft retail environment and $16 million in severance charges. The Filmed Entertainment segment had an operating loss of $25 million, including the impact of $17 million in severance charges, versus an operating profit of $86 million in the prior year. This decline reflects the underperformance of certain theatrical releases, lower home entertainment profits and the timing of the theatrical release of late in the quarter.
Second Quarter 2009 operating income
Rock Band
Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen
decreased $130 million, or 32%, to $277 million, principally due to lower operating income and increased foreign exchange losses, partially offset by a lower effective tax rate and lower interest expense. Excluding the $21 million after-tax impact of severance charges, adjusted net earnings attributable to Viacom were $298 million, down 27% versus the prior year. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.49, a 23% decline from diluted EPS of $0.64 in the second quarter of 2008.
Second Quarter 2009 net earnings attributable to Viacom
 
Debt
At June 30, 2009, total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, decreased to $7.37 billion, compared with $8.00 billion at December 31, 2008. The Company's cash balances decreased to $250 million at June 30, 2009 compared with $792 million at December 31, 2008.
About Viacom
Viacom, consisting of BET Networks, MTV Networks and Paramount Pictures, is the world's leading entertainment content company. It engages audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the world's best known entertainment brands, including MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Noggin, COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, TV Land, BET, Rock Band, AddictingGames, Atom, Neopets, Shockwave and Paramount Pictures. Viacom's global reach includes approximately 170 channels and 400 online properties in 163 countries and territories.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the worsening of current economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; the public acceptance of the Company's programs, motion pictures and games on the various platforms on which they are distributed; competition for audiences and distribution; technological developments and their effect in the Company's markets and on consumer behavior; fluctuations in the Company's results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Company's motion pictures and games; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; the impact of piracy; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table reconciles the Company's results for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009 and the six months ended June 30, 2008, to adjusted results that exclude the impact of severance charges and an impairment charge of a minority investment. The Company uses adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted EPS as applicable, among other measures, to evaluate the Company's operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods. The Company believes that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by the Company's management, improves their ability to understand the Company's operating performance and makes it easier to compare the Company's results with other companies. Since adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted EPS are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


