FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20100930163215.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5  Corporate Governance and Management
(c)           On September 30, 2010, Viacom Inc. (Viacom) announced the appointment of James W. Barge to the position of Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, effective October 1, 2010.  Mr. Barge, age 55, has served as Viacoms Executive Vice President, Tax and Treasury since January 2008 and as Controller since March 2008.  Prior to joining Viacom, Mr. Barge served as Senior Vice President and Controller of Time Warner Inc. beginning in mid-2002.  For a description of the material terms of Mr. Barges new employment agreement, see subsection (e) below.
 
On September 30, 2010, Viacom also announced the appointment of Katherine Gill-Charest to the position of Senior Vice President, Controller, effective October 1, 2010.  Ms. Gill-Charest, age 46, has served as Viacoms Senior Vice President, Deputy Controller since April 2010 and, prior to that, served as Viacoms Vice President, Deputy Controller beginning in May 2007.  In her new position, Ms. Gill-Charest will serve as Viacoms principal accounting officer.  Prior to joining Viacom, Ms. Gill-Charest served as Chief Accounting Officer of WPP Group USA from November 2005 to May 2007 and, prior to that, as its Vice President, Group Reporting beginning in February 2001.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the appointments is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
 
(e)           On September 29, 2010, Viacom entered into a new employment agreement (the Agreement) with Mr. Barge, effective as of October 1, 2010.  The Agreement reflects Mr. Barges new position as Viacoms Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and extends Mr. Barges term of employment to September 30, 2013 on the following terms:
 
- 2 -
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.  The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
- 3 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  September 30, 2010
 
 
- 4 -
 
 
-5-
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
KATHERINE GILL-CHAREST NAMED CONTROLLER
 
NEW YORK, Sept. 30, 2010
James W. Barge has been named Chief Financial Officer of Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B), it was announced today by Thomas E. Dooley, Viacoms Chief Operating Officer.  In his new role, Mr. Barge, who previously served as Executive Vice President, Controller, Tax and Treasury for the Company, succeeds Mr. Dooley, who has served as Viacoms Chief Financial Officer since January 2007.
 
Mr. Barge, 55, will be responsible for the Companys financial reporting and planning, accounting, tax and treasury functions, as well as Viacoms information technology activities.  He will continue to report to Mr. Dooley.
 
Mr. Dooley also announced the appointment of Katherine Gill-Charest to the post of Senior Vice President and Controller for Viacom.  In this role, she will have direct responsibility for the financial reporting, accounting and financial compliance activities of Viacom and its subsidiaries.  Ms. Gill-Charest, 46, has been Vice President and Deputy Controller of Viacom since June 2007.  She will report to Mr. Barge.
 
Both positions are effective October 1, 2010.
 
In making the announcement, Mr. Dooley said, Jimmy brings an abundance of media industry insight, financial acumen and strong leadership to Viacoms financial operations.  He has worked closely with me over the past several years to develop and execute plans to significantly strengthen the Companys financial position.  At the same time, Jimmy has continued to develop outstanding talent throughout our finance organization. His strong capabilities and our proven track record will help us to build on this progress.
 
Mr. Dooley continued, Kathys promotion to Controller is a great example of the deep bench strength we have built at Viacom.  She is an accomplished finance executive with proven technical expertise as well as a broad understanding of the media business.  Kathy has greatly improved the efficiency of our financial reporting processes and I look forward to the many contributions to Viacoms success that she and Jimmy will make in the future.
 
Prior to joining Viacom in January 2008, Mr. Barge served as Senior Vice President and Controller for Time Warner since mid-2002.  He joined Time Warner in 1995 as Assistant Controller and advanced through various financial roles in external reporting, financial planning and analysis, and financial operations.  Prior to that, Mr. Barge spent nearly 17 years with public accounting firm Ernst & Young.  He last served as a Partner and Area Industry Leader of the Consumer Products Group for the West Region.  He previously was a partner in the national office, where he was responsible for the resolution of SEC accounting and reporting issues for many of th e firms largest
 
 
 
clients.  Prior to that assignment, Mr. Barge was selected to participate in the Professional Accounting Fellow Program in the SECs Office of the Chief Accountant in Washington, D.C.  In 1982, he participated in Ernst & Youngs International Program, serving a variety of international clients in London.
 
Mr. Barge graduated summa cum laude from the University of Georgia in 1978 with a bachelors degree in business administration and is a member of the AICPA.
 
Ms. Gill-Charest was the Chief Accounting Officer of WPP Group prior to joining Viacom.  She also served as the Vice President and Worldwide Controller of Young & Rubicam Inc. prior to its acquisition by WPP.  Ms. Gill-Charest previously held roles in financial reporting and accounting policy at Time Warner Inc. and NYNEX Corporation, and she worked in the audit practice of Price Waterhouse.
 
Ms. Gill-Charest holds a bachelor of science degree in accounting from Manhattan College, where she graduated summa cum laude.  She is a New York State Certified Public Accountant and member of the American Institute of CPAs.
 
About Viacom
Viacom, consisting of BET Networks, MTV Networks and Paramount Pictures, is the worlds leading entertainment content company.  It engages audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the worlds best known entertainment brands, including MTV, VH1, CMT, Palladia, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick at Nite, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, TV Land, BET, CENTRIC, Rock Band, AddictingGames, Atom, Neopets, Shockwave and Paramount Pictures.  Viacoms global reach includes approximately 170 channels and 500 digital media properties in more than 160 countries and territories.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
 
 
 
CONTACTS:
 
2
 


