FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20111115161944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 3  Securities and Trading Markets
On November 11, 2011, the Company provided written notice to the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) of the Companys intention to voluntarily withdraw its Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (collectively, the Common Stock) from listing and trading on NYSE, effective on or about November 30, 2011, and to transfer its listing to The NASDAQ Global Select Market (NASDAQ) and commence trading thereon on or about December 1, 2011.  The Common Stock has been approved for listing on NASDAQ.  The Class A Common Stock will trade under the stock symbol VIA and the Class B Common Stock will trade under the stock symbol VIAB.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: November 15, 2011
 
- 3 -
 
                            
Exhibit No.
Description of Exhibit
 
-4 -

Exhibit 99
 
Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA, VIA.B) today announced the transfer of its stock exchange listing to The NASDAQ Global Select Market from The New York Stock Exchange.
New York, NY  Nov. 11, 2011 
The company said that the voluntary transfer to The NASDAQ Global Select Market, an exchange of The NASDAQ OMX Group Inc. (Nasdaq: NDAQ), will be more cost effective, while continuing to provide Viacom shareholders with strong execution and liquidity.  Viacoms Class A common stock will trade on NASDAQ under the symbol  and its Class B common stock will trade under the symbol  beginning December 1, 2011.
VIA
VIAB
About Viacom
Viacom is home to the world's premier entertainment brands that connect with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in more than 160 countries and territories. With approximately 160 media networks reaching approximately 700 million global subscribers, Viacom's leading brands include MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, BET, CENTRIC, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike TV and Tr3s. Paramount Pictures, America's oldest film studio and creator of many of the most beloved motion pictures, continues today as a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. Viacom operates a large portfolio of branded digital media experiences, including many of the world's most popular properties for entertainment, community and casual online gaming.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the public acceptance of the Companys programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content on the various platforms on which they are distributed; technological developments and their effect in the Companys markets and on consumer behavior; competition for audiences and distribution; the impact of piracy; economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; fluctuations in the Companys results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Companys motion pictures; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses generally; and other factors described in the Companys news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Reconciliations for any non-GAAP financial information contained in this news release are included in this news release or available on the Companys website at www.viacom.com.
 
 
 
 


