FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20110525160854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01               Other Events.
 
On May 25, 2011, Viacom Inc. announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in its quarterly cash dividend on its Class A and Class B common stock from $0.15 per share to $0.25 per share.  The next quarterly cash dividend will be payable on July 1, 2011 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 15, 2011.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.  The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
                
Exhibit No.
Description of
Exhibit
 
99Press release of Viacom Inc. dated May 25, 2011 announcing an increase in its quarterly cash dividend.
   
     
 
  
   
  
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 25, 2011
 
 
- 3 -
 
- 4 -

Exhibit 99
 Viacom Inc. (NYSE: VIA and VIA.B) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 67% increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.25 per share of Class A and B common stock from $0.15 per share.
NEW YORK, May 25, 2011
The dividend will be payable on July 1, 2011 to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 15, 2011.
Viacom President and CEO Philippe Dauman said, Viacom is in excellent shape financially and momentum across our businesses is strong.  This substantial increase in our dividend, as well as our ongoing stock buyback program, reflects the confidence we have in our ability to generate ample free cash flow to support returning greater value to our stockholders while continuing to maintain a strong balance sheet and invest in the long-term growth of our operations.
About Viacom
Viacom is home to the worlds premier entertainment brands.  Through its BET Networks, MTV Networks and Paramount Pictures divisions, Viacom connects with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in more than 160 countries and territories.  With approximately 170 media networks reaching more than 600 million global subscribers, Viacoms leading brands include MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, BET, CENTRIC, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike TV and Tr3s.  Paramount Pictures, Americas oldest film studio and creator of many of the most beloved motion pictures, continues today as a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment.  Viacom operates a large portfolio of branded digital media experiences, including many of the worlds most popular properties for entertainment, community and casual online gaming.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements.  Forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the public acceptance of the Companys programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content on the various platforms on which they are distributed; technological developments and their effect in the Companys markets and on consumer behavior; the impact of piracy; competition for audiences and distribution; fluctuations in the Companys results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Companys motion pictures; economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in 
 particular; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses generally; and other factors described in the Companys news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Fiscal Year 2010 Transition Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
 
 
 


