FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20111208170630.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1  Registrants Business and Operations
On December 2, 2011, Viacom Inc. (Viacom) entered into an amendment (the First Amendment) to its $2.0 billion three-year revolving credit agreement, dated as of October 8, 2010 (the Credit Agreement) among Viacom, the subsidiaries of Viacom designated as borrowers from time to time thereunder, the lenders named therein, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, Citibank, N.A. and Bank of America, N.A., as syndication agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as documentation agents.
The First Amendment modifies certain provisions of the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) increase the amount of the credit facility from $2.0 billion to $2.1 billion, (ii) extend the maturity date of the credit facility from October 8, 2013 to December 2, 2015 and (iii) increase the amount by which Viacom has the right at any time to increase the total amount of commitments under the Credit Agreement from an aggregate amount not to exceed $500 million to an aggregate amount not to exceed $1 billion.
The foregoing description of the First Amendment is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the First Amendment, a copy of which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to Viacoms Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended December 31, 2011.
Some of the financial institutions party to the First Amendment and their respective affiliates have performed, and/or may in the future perform, various commercial banking, investment banking and other financial advisory services in the ordinary course of business for Viacom and its respective subsidiaries, for which they have received, and/or will receive, customary fees and commissions.
 
Section 2  Financial Information
The information set forth under Item 1.01 above is hereby incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
                      
On December 7, 2011, Viacom issued a press release announcing the issuance of a notice of redemption to redeem on January 9, 2012 all of its outstanding 6.85% Senior Notes due December 15, 2055.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
              
 
- 2 -
 
 
- 3 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  December 8, 2011
 
- 4 -
 
 
- 5 -

Exhibit 99
 
 Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIA, VIAB) today announced that it has issued a notice of redemption to redeem on January 9, 2012 (the "Redemption Date") all of its outstanding 6.85% Senior Notes due December 15, 2055 (NYSE: ) (the "2055 Notes") (CUSIP No. 92553P300).
NEW YORK, NY  December 7, 2011
VNV
The redemption price for each of the 2055 Notes outstanding will be equal to 100% of the principal amount of such 2055 Note, plus accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the Redemption Date (the "Redemption Price").
The Bank of New York Mellon is the trustee for each of the 2055 Notes and will act as the paying agent for these transactions. The Bank of New York Mellon's address is Global Corporate Trust, 111 Sanders Creek Parkway, East Syracuse, N.Y. 13057, Attention: Redemption Unit.
The 2055 Notes will each become due and payable, at the Redemption Price, upon presentation and surrender of the respective 2055 Notes, on or after the Redemption Date, at the office of the paying agent.  From and after the Redemption Date, the 2055 Notes will cease to accrue interest and holders of the 2055 Notes will not be entitled to exercise any of the rights with respect to the 2055 Notes except the right to receive the Redemption Price.
The 2055 Notes were originally issued on December 13, 2006 in the aggregate principal amount of $750,000,000 (all of which principal amount remains outstanding), in minimum denominations of $25 and integral multiples of $25.
Holders of 2055 Notes with questions regarding the details of the redemption may call The Bank of New York Mellon Bondholder Relations Department at 1.800.254.2826.
This press release is for informational purposes only and does not constitute an offer to purchase or sell or a solicitation of an offer to purchase or sell any securities in any jurisdiction.
About Viacom
Viacom is home to the world's premier entertainment brands that connect with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in more than 160 countries and territories. With approximately 160 media networks reaching approximately 700 million global subscribers, Viacom's leading brands include MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, BET, CENTRIC, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike TV and Tr3s. Paramount Pictures, America's oldest film studio and creator of many of the most beloved motion pictures, continues today as a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment.
 
 
 
Viacom operates a large portfolio of branded digital media experiences, including many of the world's most popular properties for entertainment, community and casual online gaming.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit .
www.viacom.com
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the public acceptance of the Companys programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content on the various platforms on which they are distributed; technological developments and their effect in the Companys markets and on consumer behavior; competition for audiences and distribution; the impact of piracy; economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; fluctuations in the Companys results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Companys motion pictures; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses generally; and other factors described in the Companys news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
Contacts:
 


