FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20120523171609.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01               Other Events.
 
On May 23, 2012, Viacom Inc. announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in its quarterly cash dividend on its Class A and Class B common stock from $0.25 per share to $0.275 per share.  The next quarterly cash dividend will be payable on July 2, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 15, 2012.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01               Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)           Exhibits.  The following exhibit is filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
                      
Exhibit No.
Description of
Exhibit
 
                              99                                   Press release of Viacom Inc. dated May 23, 2012 announcing an increase in its quarterly cash dividend.
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 23, 2012
 
 
- 3 -
 
-4-

Exhibit 99
 Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIA and VIAB) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 10% increase in its quarterly dividend to $0.275 per share of Class A and B common stock from $0.25 per share.  
NEW YORK, May 23, 2012
The increase will take effect beginning with Viacoms next quarterly dividend, payable on July 2, 2012 to stockholders of record at the close of business on June 15, 2012.
Viacom President and CEO Philippe Dauman said, We are pleased that our consistently strong cash flows and solid balance sheet have allowed us to increase our dividend rate for the second time in the two years of our dividend program.  Returning value to our shareholders is a priority for Viacom, both in our dividend policy and our stock buyback program, which we maintain alongside our ongoing and robust investment in our leading global brands.
About Viacom
Viacom is home to the world's premier entertainment brands that connect with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in over 160 countries and territories. With media networks reaching approximately 700 million global subscribers, Viacom's leading brands include MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, BET, CENTRIC, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, SPIKE, Tr3s, Paramount Channel and VIVA. Paramount Pictures, celebrating its 100th year in 2012 and creator of many of the most beloved motion pictures, continues today as a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. Viacom operates a large portfolio of branded digital media experiences, including many of the world's most popular properties for entertainment, community and casual online gaming.
 
 
 
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit www.viacom.com.  Keep up with Viacom news by following Viacom's blog at blog.viacom.com and Twitter feed at www.twitter.com/Viacom.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Companys current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the public acceptance of the Companys programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content on the various platforms on which they are distributed; technological developments and their effect in the Companys markets and on consumer behavior; competition for audiences and distribution; the impact of piracy; economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; fluctuations in the Companys results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Companys motion pictures; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Companys businesses generally; and other factors described in the Companys news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances.
  2


