FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20120503075524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2 - Financial Information
 
On May 3, 2012, Viacom Inc. issued a press release announcing earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99 and is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: May 3, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
 
 
 
Viacom Inc. (NASDAQ: VIA, VIAB) today reported a significant increase in profits and higher consolidated revenues for the fiscal second quarter, which ended March 31, 2012. Revenues in the second quarter increased 2% to $3.33 billion, driven primarily by higher Media Networks affiliate revenues. Operating income grew 23% to $932 million, reflecting the overall increase in revenues, as well as lower expenses principally related to the Filmed Entertainment segment. Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom rose 24% in the quarter to $535 million and adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.26 per diluted share to $0.98 for the quarter.
New York, N.Y., May 3, 2012 
Sumner M. Redstone, Executive Chairman of Viacom, said, "Viacom continues its strong track record of growth and innovation, creating the world's best entertainment content and operating more efficiently every day. Throughout the Company, our leaders tirelessly build Viacom's outstanding global properties in order to drive superior value for shareholders."
Philippe Dauman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Viacom, said, "In the second quarter, Viacom continued its steady growth and delivered notably higher profitability, driven by relentless investment in our exceptional brands, and an ongoing focus on operational excellence. MTV, Nickelodeon and Comedy Central remain the number one cable destinations for their audiences, and up-and-coming brands such as VH1 and CMT are adding viewers with exciting new original shows. Driven by our popular programming, Viacom's media networks are also forging new and lucrative opportunities in digital distribution, while continuing to create increasing value with our traditional affiliate partners. Our international media networks continue to expand in scope and profitability, with this quarter marking the launch of the first of many Paramount Channels around the world. Paramount Pictures turned in outstanding bottom line results, with a targeted slate of films, a smart strategy that embraces new digital opportunities and
an ongoing focus on efficiency. In the current quarter, in 3-D became a worldwide hit for the second time, and we look forward to the release of , and later in the quarter.
Titanic
The Dictator
G.I. Joe: Retaliation
Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted
"Viacom's substantial EPS growth is the result of revenue growth, improved margins, and our $10 billion stock repurchase program, which returned $700 million in equity to shareholders in the quarter. In the second quarter we also reduced our debt costs, which further strengthened our rock-solid balance sheet."
 
NM - Not Meaningful
increased 23% to $932 million in the quarter. Media Networks adjusted operating income increased 11% to $893 million, principally reflecting the increase in affiliate revenues. Adjusted operating income in the Filmed Entertainment segment increased 195% to $115 million, driven principally by lower distribution costs, which more than offset lower revenues.
Quarterly operating income
 
rose $105 million to $535 million, a gain of 24% over the same period last year. The increase is principally due to the growth in operating income across the Company. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for the quarter were $0.98, a 36% increase from $0.72 in the prior year's comparable quarter, reflecting the increase in adjusted net earnings from continuing operations and a reduction in outstanding shares due to the Company's ongoing stock repurchase program.
Quarterly adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom
Stock Repurchase Program
For the quarter ended March 31, 2012, Viacom repurchased 14.7 million shares under its stock repurchase program, for an aggregate purchase price of $700 million. As of May 2, 2012, Viacom had $5.90 billion remaining in its $10 billion stock repurchase program.
Debt
At March 31, 2012, total debt outstanding, including capital lease obligations, was $7.78 billion, compared with $7.37 billion at September 30, 2011. The Company's cash balances were $1.14 billion at March 31, 2012, an increase from $1.02 billion at September 30, 2011.
About Viacom
Viacom is home to the world's premier entertainment brands that connect with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in over 160 countries and territories. With media networks reaching approximately 700 million global subscribers, Viacom's leading brands include MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, BET, CENTRIC, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, SPIKE, Tr3s, Paramount Channel and VIVA. Paramount Pictures, celebrating its 100
th
year in 2012 and creator of many of the most beloved motion pictures, continues today as a major global producer and distributor of filmed entertainment. Viacom operates a large portfolio of branded digital media experiences, including many of the world's most popular properties for entertainment, community and casual online gaming.
For more information about Viacom and its businesses, visit www.viacom.com.
Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains both historical and forward-looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements reflect the Company's current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors include, among others: the public acceptance of the Company's programs, motion pictures and other entertainment content on the various platforms on which they are distributed; technological developments and their effect in the Company's markets and on consumer behavior; competition for audiences and distribution; the impact of piracy; economic conditions generally, and in advertising and retail markets in particular; fluctuations in the Company's results due to the timing, mix and availability of the Company's motion pictures; changes in the Federal communications laws and regulations; other domestic and global economic, business, competitive and/or regulatory factors affecting the Company's businesses generally; and other factors described in the Company's news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K and reports on Form 10-Q and Form 8-K. The forward-looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and the Company does not have any obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. If applicable, reconciliations for any non-GAAP financial information contained in this news release are included in this news release or available on the Company's website at .
http://www.viacom.com
 
 
 
 
The following table reconciles the Company's results for the quarter and six months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011 to adjusted results that exclude the impact of certain items identified as affecting comparability ("Factors Affecting Comparability"), including extinguishment of debt and discrete tax benefits. The Company uses consolidated adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS") from continuing operations, as applicable, among other measures, to evaluate the Company's actual operating performance and for planning and forecasting of future periods. The Company believes that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because they clarify the Company's actual operating performance, make it easier to compare Viacom's results with those of other companies and allow investors to review performance in the same way as our management. Since these are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for, operating income, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
 
 
 
 


