FILE:VIAB/VIAB-8K-20121130172438.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01           Other Events.
On November 26, 2012, Viacom Inc. (the "Company") issued and sold $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Senior Debentures due 2043 (the "Senior Debentures") to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and outside the United States to non-U.S. persons in compliance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. In connection with the issuance and sale of the Senior Debentures, on November 26, 2012, the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee"), entered into a twelfth supplemental indenture (the "Twelfth Supplemental Indenture") to the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee. The Twelfth Supplemental Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Report. The interest rate on the Senior Debentures may increase in certain circumstances if the Company is not in timely compliance with its obligation to exchange or register the Senior Debentures pursuant to the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") dated as of November 26, 2012 between Viacom Inc. and the initial purchasers named therein, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 4.2 to this Report.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits.
      (d)         Exhibits. The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
Execution Version
 
 
 
 
 
 
TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE, dated as of November 26, 2012, between VIACOM INC., a Delaware corporation (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON, a New York banking corporation, as trustee (the "") to the Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee, (as so amended, the "").
Company
Trustee
Indenture
WHEREAS, Section 901(5) of the Indenture permits supplements thereto without the consent of Holders of Securities to change any provisions of the Indenture with respect to a series of Securities, where there are no Securities Outstanding which are entitled to the benefit of such provision; and
WHEREAS, as contemplated by Section 301 of the Indenture, the Company intends to issue a new series of Securities, consisting of 4.375% senior debentures due 2043 (the "") under the Indenture;
Securities
NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE WITNESSETH:
For consideration, the adequacy and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by the parties hereto, each party agrees as follows, for the benefit of the other party and for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities as follows:
SECTION 1.   For the purpose of this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, all terms used herein, unless otherwise defined, shall have the meaning assigned to them in the Indenture, as supplemented hereby.
SECTION 2.   The Company shall issue Securities in an aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000. The form of the Securities is set forth in Exhibit A hereto. The Securities shall include the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A hereto, substantially in the form so set forth, except to the extent otherwise provided herein.
SECTION 3.   The Securities offered and sold in reliance on Rule 144A shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global Securities in registered form, substantially in the form set forth in Exhibit A hereto, (the ""), registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary, deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in Section 303 of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee, in accordance with the instructions given by the Holder thereof, as hereinafter provided.
U.S. Global Securities
The Securities offered and sold in offshore transactions in reliance on Regulation S shall be issued initially in the form of one or more permanent global Securities in registered form, substantially in the forms set forth in Exhibit A hereto, (the ""),
Offshore Global Securities
 
registered in the name of the nominee of the Depositary, deposited with the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary, duly executed by the Company and authenticated by the Trustee as provided in Section 303 of the Indenture. The aggregate principal amount of the Offshore Global Securities may from time to time be increased or decreased by adjustments made on the records of the Trustee, as custodian for the Depositary or its nominee, as hereinafter provided.
The U.S. Global Securities and the Offshore Global Securities are sometimes referred to herein as the "."
Global Securities
SECTION 4.   For the sole benefit of the Holders of the Securities, Section 101 of the Indenture is hereby amended by adding the following definitions, each in appropriate alphabetical order:
"" means any Transfer Agent, Registrar, co-Registrar, Paying Agent or Authenticating Agent.
Agent
"" means November 26, 2012.
Closing Date
"" means, as applicable, either the U.S. Depositary or the Common Depositary.
Depositary
" means any securities of the Company containing terms identical to the Securities (except that such Exchange Notes shall be registered under the Securities Act and shall not include the restrictions on transfer or any increase in the interest rate) that are issued and exchanged for the Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement and the Indenture.
"Exchange Notes
"" means the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
"" means the excess, if any, of (i) the aggregate present value as of the Redemption Date of the principal being redeemed and the amount of interest (exclusive of interest accrued to the Redemption Date) that would have been payable if redemption had not been made, determined by discounting, on a semiannual basis, the remaining principal and interest at the Reinvestment Rate (determined on the third Business Day preceding the Redemption Date) from the dates on which the principal and interest would have been payable if the redemption had not been made, to the Redemption Date, over (ii) the aggregate principal amount of Securities being redeemed.
Make-Whole Amount
"" means a Person who is not a United States Person.
Non-United States Person
"" means a Person who has an account with a Depositary.
Participant
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement, dated November 26, 2012, among the Company and Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, as initial purchasers and as representatives of each of the other initial purchasers named therein, and certain permitted assigns specified therein.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means the Registration Statement as defined and described in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Registration Statement
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
"" means a person who is not a "U.S. Person" as defined in Regulation S.
Regulation S Non-U.S. Person
"" has the meaning assigned thereto in Regulation S.
Regulation S U.S. Person
"" means (i) the arithmetic mean of the yields under the heading "Week Ending" published in the most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 under the caption "Treasury Constant Maturities" for the maturity (rounded to the nearest month) corresponding to the remaining life to maturity, as of the payment date of the principal being redeemed or paid, plus (ii) 0.30%. If no maturity exactly corresponds to the maturity, yields for the two published maturities most closely corresponding to the maturity would be so calculated and the Reinvestment Rate would be interpolated or extrapolated, as the case may be, on a straight-line basis, rounding to the nearest month. The most recent Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 published prior to the date of determination of the Make-Whole Amount will be used for purposes of calculating the Reinvestment Rate.
Reinvestment Rate
"" means any Security that has not been sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement.
Restricted Security
"" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
Rule 144A
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time.
Securities Act
"" means the Shelf Registration Statement as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Shelf Registration Statement
SECTION 5.   For the sole benefit of the holders of the Securities, Section 305 of the Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following Sections 305, 305A, 305B, 305C, 305D and 305E (the ""):
New Provisions
SECTION 305.   .   The Company shall maintain an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for transfer or for exchange (the "") and for the registration of such transfer or exchange (the "", which term shall include acting in the capacity of Transfer Agent), an office or agency in the City of New York where Securities may be presented for payment (the "") and an office or agency where notices and demands pursuant to this section to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities and this Indenture may be served, which shall be in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York with respect to such series. The Company shall cause the Registrar to keep a register of the Securities and of their transfer and exchange (the ""). The Security Register shall be in written form or any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time. The Company may have one or more co-Registrars and one or more additional Paying Agents.
Registrar and Paying Agent
Transfer Agent
Registrar
Paying Agent
Security Register
 
The Company shall enter into an appropriate agency agreement with any Agent not a party to this Indenture. The agreement shall implement the provisions of this Indenture that relate to such Agent. The Company shall give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the name and address of any such Agent and any change in the address of such Agent. If the Company fails to maintain a Registrar, Paying Agent and/or agent for service of notices and demands pursuant to this section, the Trustee shall act as such Registrar, Paying Agent and/or agent for service of notices and demands pursuant to this section. The Company may remove any Agent upon written notice to such Agent and the Trustee; that no such removal shall become effective until (i) the acceptance of an appointment by a successor Agent to such Agent as evidenced by an appropriate agency agreement entered into by the Company and such successor Agent and delivered to the Trustee or (ii) notification to the Trustee that the Trustee shall serve as such Agent until the appointment of a successor Agent in accordance with clause (i) of this proviso. The Company, any Subsidiary of the Company, or any Affiliate of any of them may act as Paying Agent, Registrar or co-Registrar, and/or agent for service of notice and demands.
provided
The Company initially appoints the Trustee as Registrar, Paying Agent, Authenticating Agent and agent for service of notice and demands. The Trustee shall preserve in as current a form as is reasonably practicable the most recent list available to it of the names and addresses of Holders and shall otherwise comply with TIA  312(a). If the Trustee is not the Registrar, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee as of each Regular Record Date and at such other times as the Trustee may reasonably request the names and addresses of Holders as they appear in the Security Register, including the aggregate principal amount of Securities held by each Holder.
SECTION 305A.   .  A Holder may transfer a Security only by written application to the Registrar stating the name of the proposed transferee and otherwise complying with the terms of this Indenture. No such transfer shall be effected until, and such transferee shall succeed to the rights of a Holder only upon, final acceptance and registration of the transfer by the Registrar in the Security Register. Prior to the registration of any transfer by a Holder as provided herein, the Company, the Trustee, and any agent of the Company shall treat the person in whose name the Security is registered as the owner thereof for all purposes whether or not the Security shall be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee, nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Furthermore, any Holder of a Global Security shall, by acceptance of such Global Security, agree that transfers of beneficial interests in such Global Securities may be effected only through a book-entry system maintained by the Holder of such Global Security (or its agent) and that ownership of a beneficial interest in the Security shall be required to be reflected in a book-entry. When Securities are presented to the Registrar or a co-Registrar with a request to register the transfer or to exchange them for an equal principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations, the Registrar shall register the transfer or make the exchange as requested if its requirements for such transactions are met (including that such Securities are duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and Registrar duly executed by the Holder thereof or by an attorney who is authorized in
Transfer and Exchange
 
writing to act on behalf of the Holder); the requirements of Section 305D herein are met. To permit registrations of transfers and exchanges, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate Securities at the Registrar's request. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange or redemption of the Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any transfer tax or similar governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
provided that
The Registrar shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange any Security during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities selected for redemption under Article Eleven and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part.
SECTION 305B.  .  (i) Unless and until a Security is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, the U.S. Global Securities shall bear the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A and (ii) the Offshore Global Securities shall bear the legends set forth on the face of Exhibit A until (A) at least the 41
Legend on Restricted Securities
st
day after the Closing Date and (B) receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto.
Except as provided in Section 305D, the Trustee shall not issue any unlegended Securities until it has received an Officers' Certificate from the Company directing it to do so.
SECTION 305C.  .   (a) Each U.S. Global Security and Offshore Global Security initially shall (i) be registered in the name of the Depositary for such U.S. Global Security or Offshore Global Security or the nominee of such Depositary, (ii) be delivered, as applicable, either to the Trustee, as custodian for the U.S. Depositary, or to the Common Depositary and (iii) bear legends as set forth on the face of the form of the Security.
Book-Entry Provisions for U.S. Global Securities and Offshore Global Securities
Members of, or Participants in, the Depositary ("") shall have no rights under this Indenture with respect to any Global Security held on their behalf by the Depositary, or the Trustee as its custodian or the Common Depositary, as applicable, or under such Global Security, and the Depositary may be treated by the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee as the absolute owner of such Global Security for all purposes whatsoever. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall prevent the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee from giving effect to any written certification, proxy or other authorization furnished by the Depositary or impair, as between the Depositary and its Agent Members, the operation of customary practices governing the exercise of the rights of a holder of any Security.
Agent Members
(b)       Transfers of a Global Security shall be limited to transfers of such Global Security in whole, but not in part, to the Depositary, its successors or their
 
respective nominees, and as further specified in Section 305D. Transfers of interests in one Global Security to parties who will hold the interests through the same Global Security will be effected in the ordinary way in accordance with the respective rules and operating procedures of the applicable Depositaries and the provisions of Section 305D. The provisions of the "Operating Procedures of the Euroclear System" and "Terms and Conditions Governing Use of Euroclear" of Euroclear and the "General Terms and Conditions of Clearstream" and "Customer Handbook" of Clearstream shall be applicable to interests in the Global Securities that are held by Agent Members through Euroclear and Clearstream.
(c)       Any beneficial interest in one of the Global Securities that is transferred to a person who takes delivery in the form of an interest in another Global Security will, upon transfer, cease to be an interest in such Global Security and become an interest in such other Global Security and, accordingly, will thereafter be subject to all transfer restrictions, if any, and other procedures applicable to beneficial interests in such other Global Security for so long as it remains such an interest.
(d)       In connection with any transfer of a portion of the interests in a Global Security to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section 305C, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of such Global Security in an amount equal to the principal amount of the interest in such Global Security to be transferred.
(e)       In connection with the transfer of the U.S. Global Securities or the Offshore Global Securities, in whole, to beneficial owners pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section 305C, the U.S. Global Securities or Offshore Global Securities, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be surrendered to the Trustee for cancellation.
(f)       The registered holder of a Global Security may grant proxies and otherwise authorize any person, including Agent Members and persons that may hold interests through Agent Members, to take any action which a Holder is entitled to take under this Indenture or the Securities.
(g)       The Securities are initially solely issuable as Global Securities. Registered Securities shall be physically transferred to all beneficial owners in definitive form in exchange for their beneficial interests in a Global Security, if the Depositary with respect to such Global Securities notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Global Security, as the case may be, and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days of such notice. In addition, the Company may at any time, and in its sole discretion, determine not to have the Securities represented by Global Securities and, in such event, the Company shall issue Securities in definitive form in exchange for the Global Security representing such Securities.
(h)       All Securities issued upon any transfer or exchange of Securities shall be valid, legally enforceable obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt,
 
and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such transfer or exchange.
SECTION 305D.  (a)  .  The following provisions shall apply with respect to the registration of any proposed transfer of Securities constituting a Restricted Security to a qualified institutional buyer as defined in Rule 144A (a ""):
Transfers to QIBs
QIB
(i)       if the Securities to be transferred consist of an interest in the U.S. Global Securities, the transfer of such interest may be effected through the book-entry system maintained by the Depositary; and
(ii)       (A) if the proposed transferor is an Agent Member holding a beneficial interest in the Offshore Global Securities, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the Offshore Global Securities, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the Offshore Global Securities, to be transferred, and (B) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the Offshore Global Securities, to be transferred and the Trustee shall decrease the amount of the Offshore Global Securities.
(b)       . The following provisions shall apply with respect to any transfer of interests in Offshore Global Securities:
Transfers of Interests in the Offshore Global Securities
(i)       until the expiration of the 40-day distribution compliance period within the meaning of Rule 903 of Regulation S, any offer or sale of interests in the Offshore Global Securities shall be made (a) (1) outside the United States in compliance with Rule 903 or 904 under the Securities Act or (2) to a QIB in compliance with Rule 144A and (b) in accordance with all applicable securities laws of the states of the United States or any other applicable jurisdiction;
(ii)       prior to the removal of the legend from the Offshore Global Securities pursuant to Section 305B, the Registrar shall refuse to register such transfer unless such transfer complies with this Section 305D; and
(iii)     after such removal, the Registrar shall register the transfer of any such Security without requiring any additional certification.
(c)       . The following provisions shall apply with respect to any transfer of a Restricted Security to a Regulation S Non-U.S. Person:
Transfers to Regulation S Non-U.S. Persons at Any Time
 
(i)       The Registrar shall register any proposed transfer to any Regulation S Non-U.S. Person if (A) the Security to be transferred is an interest in U.S. Global Securities, (B) the proposed transferor has delivered to the Registrar a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto and (C) if requested by the Company, the proposed transferee has delivered to the Registrar an opinion of counsel acceptable to the Company that such transfer is in compliance with the Securities Act.
(ii)       (A) If the proposed transferor is an Agent Member holding a beneficial interest in U.S. Global Securities upon receipt by the Registrar of (x) the documents, if any, required by paragraph (i) and (y) instructions in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and a decrease in the principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities in an amount equal to the principal amount of the beneficial interest in the U.S. Global Security to be transferred, and (B) if the proposed transferee is an Agent Member, upon receipt by the Registrar of instructions given in accordance with the Depositary's and the Registrar's procedures, the Registrar shall reflect on its books and records the date and an increase in the principal amount of the Offshore Global Securities in an amount equal to the principal amount of the U.S. Global Securities to be transferred, and the Trustee shall decrease the amount of the U.S. Global Securities.
SECTION 305E.  .  By its acceptance of any Securities bearing the legends set forth on the face of the form of the Security each Holder of such Security acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Security set forth in the Indenture and in such legends and agrees that it will transfer such Security only as provided in the Indenture.
General
The Registrar shall retain, in accordance with its customary procedures, copies of all letters, notices and other written communications received pursuant to this Section 305E. The Company shall have the right to inspect and make copies of all such letters, notices or other written communications at any reasonable time upon the giving of reasonable written notice to the Registrar.
SECTION 6.  For the sole benefit of the Holders of the Securities, Section 1101 of the Indenture is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced by the following Section 1101:
Section 1101.  .
Optional Redemption
The Securities will be redeemable, in accordance with this Article Eleven, at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment
 
Date). The Make-Whole Amount with respect to such a redemption shall be calculated by an independent investment banking institution of national standing appointed by the Company. If, for purposes of calculating the Make Whole Amount, the Reinvestment Rate shall not be available as set forth in the definition thereof the Reinvestment Rate shall be calculated by interpolation or extrapolation, as the case may be, of comparable rates selected by the independent investment banking institution.
SECTION 7.      For the sole benefit of the Holders of the Securities, a new Section 1108 shall be added to the Indenture as follows:
(a) Exchange Notes may from time to time be executed by the Company and delivered to the Trustee for authentication and the Trustee shall thereupon authenticate and deliver said Exchange Notes upon cancellation of an equal amount of Restricted Securities tendered in exchange, upon a Company Order without further action by the Company.
(b) No exchange of Securities for Exchange Notes shall occur until a Registration Statement shall have been declared effective by the Commission and any Securities that are exchanged for Exchange Notes shall be cancelled by the Trustee.
SECTION 8.      THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK SHALL GOVERN THIS TWELFTH SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE.
SECTION 9.      This Twelfth Supplemental Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
SECTION 10.    Except as herein amended with respect to the Securities, all applicable terms, conditions and provisions of the Indenture, as supplemented, shall continue in full force and effect and shall remain binding and enforceable in accordance with their respective terms.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Twelfth Supplemental Indenture to be duly executed, all as of the day and year first written above.
 
Unless and until a Security is exchanged for an Exchange Note or sold in connection with an effective Registration Statement pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, (i) the U.S. Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof and (ii) the Offshore Global Securities shall bear the legend set forth below on the face thereof until at least the 41
st
day after the Closing Date and receipt by the Company and the Trustee of a certificate substantially in the form of Appendix I hereto:
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FOLLOWING SENTENCE. BY ITS ACQUISITION HEREOF OR OF A BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, THE ACQUIRER (I) REPRESENTS THAT (A) IT AND ANY ACCOUNT FOR WHICH IT IS ACTING IS A "QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER" (WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND THAT IT EXERCISES SOLE INVESTMENT DISCRETION WITH RESPECT TO EACH SUCH ACCOUNT; OR (B) IT IS OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND IS NOT A U.S. PERSON (WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) AND (II) AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE ISSUER THAT IT WILL NOT OFFER, SELL, PLEDGE OR OTHERWISE TRANSFER THIS SECURITY OR ANY BENEFICIAL INTEREST HEREIN, EXCEPT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES AND ONLY (A) TO THE ISSUER OR ONE OF ITS AFFILIATES, (B) PURSUANT TO A REGISTRATION STATEMENT WHICH HAS BECOME EFFECTIVE UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (C) TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (D) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION TO A NON-U.S. PERSON IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 903 OR RULE 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (E) PURSUANT TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT AND (III) AGREES THAT IT WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT ACQUIRER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER OF THIS NOTE OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN CLAUSE (II) ABOVE. PRIOR TO THE REGISTRATION OF ANY TRANSFER IN ACCORDANCE WITH (II)(E) ABOVE, THE ISSUER RESERVES THE RIGHT TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF SUCH LEGAL OPINIONS, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER EVIDENCE AS MAY REASONABLY BE REQUIRED IN ORDER TO DETERMINE THAT THE PROPOSED TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN COMPLIANCE WITH THE SECURITIES ACT AND APPLICABLE STATE SECURITIES LAWS. NO REPRESENTATION IS MADE AS TO THE AVAILABILITY OF ANY RULE 144 EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT;
Each Offshore Global Security shall bear the following legend: PRIOR TO EXPIRATION OF THE 40-DAY DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD WITHIN THE MEANING OF REGULATION S, THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD,
 
PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED WITHIN THE UNITED STATES OR TO A U.S. PERSON OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OR BENEFIT OF A U.S. PERSON.
Each Global Security shall bear the following legend: Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation ("DTC"), to the Company (as defined below) or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
Any Global Security issued hereunder shall bear a legend in substantially the following form: This Security is a Global Security within the meaning of the Indenture hereinafter referred to and is registered in the name of the Depositary or a nominee of the Depositary. This Security is exchangeable for Securities registered in the name of a person other than the Depositary or its nominee only in the limited circumstances described in the Indenture, and may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to a nominee of the Depositary by a nominee of the Depositary, by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such a successor Depositary.
Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form in accordance with the provisions of the Indenture (as defined below) applicable to such exchange, this certificate may not be transferred except as a whole by DTC to a nominee of DTC or by a nominee of DTC to DTC or another nominee of DTC or by DTC or any such nominee to a successor Depository or a nominee of such successor Depository.
 
 
Viacom Inc., a Delaware corporation (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., or registered assigns, the principal sum of $                     on March 15, 2043 at the office or agency of the Company referred to below, and to pay interest thereon in arrears on March 15, 2013 and semi-annually thereafter, on March 15 and September 15 in each year, from November 26, 2012, or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, at the rate of 4.375% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or duly provided for. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid, in immediately available funds, to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 1 or September 1, as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date, and such defaulted interest, may be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to the Holder of this Security not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or may be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of and interest on this Security will be made at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee or such other office or agency of the Company as may be designated for such purpose, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , that each installment of interest and principal on this Security may at the Company's option be paid in immediately available funds by transfer to an account maintained by the payee located in the United States.
provided however
The statements set forth in the restrictive legends above are an integral part of the terms of this Security and by acceptance hereof each holder of this Security agrees to be subject to and bound by terms and provisions set forth in such legend.
This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), unlimited in aggregate principal amount, issued and to be issued in one or more series under an indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and The Bank of
 
New York Mellon, as trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 13, 2006 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 5, 2007 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 26, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 29, 2009 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 22, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 31, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 12, 2011 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 28, 2012 between the Company and the Trustee, as further supplemented by the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 14, 2012 between the Company and the Trustee and as further supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 26, 2012 between the Company and the Trustee (as so supplemented, the "Indenture"), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties, obligations and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities, and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of a series designated as 4.375% Senior Debentures due 2043, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $250,000,000. This Security is a global Security representing $     of the Securities.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: This Security is a "book-entry" Security and is being registered in the name of Cede & Co. as nominee of The Depository Trust Company ("DTC"), a clearing agency. Subject to the terms of the Indenture, this Security will be held by a clearing agency or its nominee, and beneficial interest will be held by beneficial owners through the book-entry facilities of such clearing agency or its nominee in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof. As long as this Security is registered in the name of DTC or its nominee, the Trustee will make payments of principal of and interest on this Security by wire transfer of immediately available funds to DTC or its nominee. Notwithstanding the above, the final payment on this Security will be made after due notice by the Trustee of the pendency of such payment and only upon presentation and surrender of this Security at its principal corporate trust office or such other offices or agencies appointed by the Trustee for that purpose and such other locations provided in the Indenture.
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of November 26, 2012. In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 270
th
calendar day following the Closing Date or (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Securities is not declared effective by the Commission on or prior to the 365
th
calendar day after the obligation to file the Shelf Registration Statement arises (or on or prior to such later date as provided in the Registration Rights Agreement) or ceases to be effective or usable during the periods specified in the Registration Rights Agreement (each, a "Registration Default"), the per annum interest rate borne by the Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum from the end of the applicable
 
period giving rise to such Registration Default. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults, the interest rate borne by the Securities shall be reduced to the original interest rate borne by the Securities. No increase in the rate shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective. All accrued additional interest shall be paid to Holders by the Company in the same manner as interest is paid pursuant to the Indenture. All terms used in this Security that are defined in the Registration Rights Agreement shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Registration Rights Agreement.
If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
The Securities of this series are not subject to any sinking fund and are subject to redemption prior to maturity as set forth below.
The Securities of this series will be redeemable at any time, at the option of the Company, in whole or from time to time in part, upon not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior notice, on any date prior to their maturity at a Redemption Price equal to the sum of 100% of the principal amount thereof and the Make-Whole Amount and any accrued and unpaid interest, to the Redemption Date (subject to the rights of holders of record on the relevant Regular Record Date that is on or prior to the Redemption Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date).
In the case of any partial redemption, selection of the Securities of this series for redemption will be made by the Trustee in compliance with the requirements of the principal national securities exchange, if any, on which the Securities of this series are listed or, if the Securities of this series are not listed on a national securities exchange, by lot or by such other method as the Trustee in its sole discretion shall deem to be fair and appropriate; that no Securities of this series of $2,000 in principal amount or less shall be redeemed in part. If any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption relating to such Security shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. A new Security in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued in the name of the Holder thereof upon cancellation of the original Security.
provided
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A GLOBAL SECURITY: In the event of a deposit or withdrawal of an interest in this Security, including an exchange, transfer, repurchase or conversion of this Security in part only, the Trustee, as custodian of the Depositary, shall make an adjustment on its records to reflect such deposit or withdrawal in accordance with the rules and procedures of the Depositary.
INCLUDE IF SECURITY IS A RESTRICTED SECURITY: Subject to certain limitations in the Indenture, at any time when the Company is not subject to Section 13 or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, upon the request of a Holder of a Restricted Security, the Company will promptly furnish or cause to be furnished Rule 144A Information (as defined below) to such Holder of Restricted Securities, or to a prospective purchaser of any such security designated by any such Holder, to the extent required to permit compliance by any such Holder with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
 
(the "Securities Act"). "Rule 144A Information" shall be such information as is specified pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) under the Securities Act (or any successor provision thereto).
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of (a) the entire indebtedness of the Company on this Security and (b) certain restrictive covenants and the related Defaults and Events of Default, upon compliance by the Company with certain conditions set forth therein, which provisions apply to this Security.
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of not less than specified percentages in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series, on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by or on behalf of the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
As set forth in, and subject to, the provisions of the Indenture, no Holder of any Security of this series will have any right to institute any proceeding with respect to the Indenture or for any remedy thereunder, unless such Holder shall have previously given to the Trustee written notice of a continuing Event of Default with respect to this series, the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series shall have made written request to, and offered indemnity reasonably satisfactory to, the Trustee to institute such proceeding as trustee, and the Trustee shall not have received from the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of this series a direction inconsistent with such request and shall have failed to institute such proceeding within 60 days; , that such limitations do not apply to a suit instituted by the Holder hereof for the enforcement of payment of the principal of or interest on this Security on or after the respective due dates expressed herein.
provided, however
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and interest on this Security at the times, place, and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable on the Security Register of the Company, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company maintained for such purpose in New York, New York or at such other office or agency as the Company may designate, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of
 
this series of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and any integral multiple of $1,000 in excess thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to the time of due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the absolute owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and none of the Company, the Trustee or any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
If at any time, a Depositary is at any time unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary and a successor Depositary is not appointed by the Company within 90 days, then the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form, in authorized denominations, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. Such Securities in definitive registered form shall be registered in such names and issued in such authorized denominations as the Depositary, pursuant to instructions from its direct or indirect participants or otherwise, shall instruct the Trustee. The Trustee shall deliver such Securities to the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered.
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been duly executed by or on behalf of The Bank of New York Mellon, the Trustee under the Indenture, or its successor thereunder, by the manual or facsimile signature of one of its authorized officers, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture, or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
This Security shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
 
This is one of the Securities of a series referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Dated: November 26, 2012
 
 
1515 Broadway
New York, NY 10036
The Bank of New York Mellon
We, as the seller of the Securities (""), are requesting a transfer (tick one of the following) of:
Seller
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with such request, and in respect of such Securities, we, as the Seller do hereby certify that such Securities are being transferred in accordance with the transfer restrictions set forth in the offering memorandum prepared in connection with the issuance of the Securities and the Securities and that we are transferring such Securities (tick one of the following):
 
 
(i)       the offer of the Securities was not made to a person in the United States;
[(ii)     at the time the buy order was originated, the Buyer was outside of the United States or the Seller or any person acting on its behalf reasonably believed that the Buyer was outside the United States;]
(1)
[(ii)     the transaction was executed in, or on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and neither the Seller nor any person acting on its behalf knows that the transaction was prearranged with a Buyer in the United States;]
(1)
 
(iii)     no directed selling efforts have been made in contravention of the requirements of Rule 903(a) or 904(a) of Regulation S, as applicable;
(iv)     the transaction is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act; and
(v)     with regard to transfers occurring within the 40-Day Restricted Period, any beneficial interest in Offshore Global Securities shall be held through either Euroclear or Clearstream, Luxembourg.
 
If none of the foregoing boxes are ticked, the Registrar shall not be obliged to register the transfer of the Security.
Reference is hereby made to the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 26. 2012, between Viacom Inc. (the "") and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the ""), to the Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006, between the Company and the Trustee (the ""). Terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Indenture. Other terms shall have the meanings given to them in Regulation S.
Company
Trustee
Indenture
 
 
(1)     Include only one of alternative paragraphs (ii) as appropriate.
 
 
FOR VALUE RECEIVED, the undersigned hereby transfers to
 
 
 
 
U.S.$ principal amount of this Security, and all rights with respect thereto, and irrevocably constitutes and appoints as attorney to transfer this Security on the books kept for registration thereof, with full power of substitution.
                
                            
 
 
 
Note:
(i)        The signature on this transfer form must correspond to the name as it appears on the face of this Security.
(ii)       A representative of the holder of this Security should state the capacity in which he or she signs (e.g., executor).
(iii)      The signature of the person effecting the transfer shall conform to any list of duly authorized specimen signatures supplied by the registered holder or shall be certified by a recognized bank, notary public or in such other manner as the paying agent, acting in its capacity as transfer agent or the Trustee, acting in its capacity as registrar, may require.
 

Exhibit 4.2
EXECUTION VERSION
THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of November 26, 2012, by and among VIACOM INC., a Delaware corporation (the "") and CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC., MIZUHO SECURITIES USA INC. and MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC, in their respective capacities as initial purchasers and as representatives of each of the other initial purchasers named in Schedule A hereto (collectively, the "Initial Purchasers").
Agreement
Company
This Agreement is made pursuant to the Purchase Agreement dated November 16, 2012, by and among the Company and the Initial Purchasers (the ""), which provides for the sale by the Company to the Initial Purchasers of $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of the Company's 4.375% Senior Debentures due 2043 (the ""). In order to induce the Initial Purchasers to enter into the Purchase Agreement and in satisfaction of a condition to the Initial Purchasers' obligations thereunder, the Company has agreed to provide to the Initial Purchasers and their respective direct and indirect transferees and assigns the registration rights set forth in this Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
Senior Securities
In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows:
Section 1.      Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings:
"" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
1933 Act
"" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, and the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder.
1934 Act
"" shall mean the Closing Time as defined in the Purchase Agreement.
Closing Time
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and also includes the Company's successors.
Company
"" shall mean The Depository Trust Company, or any other depositary appointed by the Company, including any agent thereof; , , that any such depositary must at all times have an address in the Borough of Manhattan, in The City of New York.
Depositary
provided
however
"" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Exchange Senior Securities for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer
"" shall mean a registration under the 1933 Act effected pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof.
Exchange Offer Registration
"" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 covering the Registrable Senior Securities (or, if
Exchange Offer Registration Statement
 
applicable, on another appropriate form), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
"" shall mean the securities issued by the Company under the Indenture containing terms identical to the Senior Securities (except that (i) interest thereon shall accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Senior Securities or, if no such interest has been paid, from the Closing Time, (ii) the transfer restrictions thereon shall be eliminated and (iii) certain provisions relating to an increase in the stated rate of interest thereon shall be eliminated) to be offered to Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in exchange for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer. The Exchange Senior Securities will be issuable in minimum denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000 in excess thereof.
Exchange Senior Securities
"" shall mean the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
FINRA
"" shall mean the Initial Purchasers, for so long as they own any Registrable Senior Securities, and each of their respective successors, assigns and direct and indirect transferees who become registered owners of Registrable Senior Securities under the Indenture.
Holders
"" shall mean the Indenture dated as of April 12, 2006, as supplemented by the First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of April 12, 2006, as further supplemented by the Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 16, 2006, as further supplemented by the Third Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 13, 2006, as further supplemented by the Fourth Supplemental Indenture dated as of October 5, 2007, as further supplemented by the Fifth Supplemental Indenture dated as of August 26, 2009, as further supplemented by the Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of September 29, 2009, as further supplemented by the Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 22, 2011, as further supplemented by the Eighth Supplemental Indenture dated as of March 31, 2011, as further supplemented by the Ninth Supplemental Indenture dated as of December 12, 2011, as further supplemented by the Tenth Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 28, 2012, as further supplemented by the Eleventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of June 14, 2012 and as further supplemented by the Twelfth Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 26, 2012, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee (the "Trustee") and as the same may be amended and supplemented from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof.
Indenture
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Initial Purchasers
"" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of Registrable Senior Securities outstanding; that whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of Registrable Senior Securities is required hereunder, Registrable Senior Securities held by the Company or any of its affiliates (as such term is defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) (other than
Majority Holders
provided
 
the Initial Purchasers or subsequent holders of Registrable Senior Securities, if such subsequent holders are deemed to be such affiliates solely by reason of their holding of such Registrable Senior Securities) shall be disregarded in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage or amount.
"" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3(f).
Participating Broker-Dealer
"" shall mean an individual, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, corporation, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
"" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including a prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein.
Prospectus
"" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble of this Agreement.
Purchase Agreement
"" shall mean the Senior Securities; , , that the Senior Securities shall cease to be Registrable Senior Securities when (i) a Registration Statement with respect to such Senior Securities shall have been declared effective under the 1933 Act and such Senior Securities shall have been disposed of pursuant to such Registration Statement, (ii) such Senior Securities shall have been sold to the public pursuant to Rule 144 (or any similar provision then in force, but not Rule 144A) under the 1933 Act, (iii) such Senior Securities shall have ceased to be outstanding or (iv) such Senior Securities have been exchanged for Exchange Senior Securities upon consummation of the Exchange Offer.
Registrable Senior Securities
provided
however
"" shall mean any and all expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC, stock exchange or FINRA registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state or other securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of FINRA (including reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for any underwriters or Holders in connection with state or other securities or blue sky qualification of any of the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities), (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any amendments or supplements thereto, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements, certificates representing the Exchange Senior Securities and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) all rating agency fees, (v) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the listing, if any, of any of the Exchange Senior Securities or such Registrable Senior Securities, covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, as applicable, on any securities exchange or exchanges, (vi) all fees and
Registration Expenses
 
disbursements relating to the qualification of the Indenture under applicable securities laws, (vii) the fees and disbursements of counsel for the Company and the fees and expenses of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (viii) the fees and expenses of a "qualified independent underwriter" as defined by Conduct Rule 2720 of FINRA (if required by the FINRA rules) in connection with the offering of the Registrable Senior Securities and the reasonable fees and expenses of its counsel, (ix) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Trustee, any registrar, any depositary and paying agent, including their respective counsel, and any escrow agent or custodian, (x) the reasonable fees and expenses of the Initial Purchasers in connection with the Exchange Offer, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Initial Purchasers which shall be Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, (xi) the reasonable fees and expenses of one counsel to the Holders which shall be Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, and (xii) in the case of an underwritten offering, any reasonable fees and disbursements of the underwriters customarily required to be paid by issuers or sellers of such securities, including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the underwriters, and the fees and expenses of any special experts retained by the Company in connection with any Registration Statement but excluding (except as otherwise provided herein) fees of counsel to the underwriters or the Holders and underwriting discounts and commissions and any transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Senior Securities by a Holder.
"" shall mean any registration statement of the Company relating to any offering of the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Registration Statement
"" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
"" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof.
Shelf Registration
"" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2(b) of this Agreement which covers all of the Registrable Senior Securities on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein.
Shelf Registration Statement
"" shall mean the trustee under the Indenture.
Trustee
 
Section 2.      
Registration Under the 1933 Act
(a)       To the extent not prohibited by any applicable law or applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to consummate the Exchange Offer within 270 calendar days after the Closing Time. The Exchange Senior Securities will be issued under the Indenture, it being the objective of the Exchange Offer to enable each Holder (other than Participating Broker-Dealers (as defined in Section 3(f))) eligible and electing to exchange Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, acquires the Exchange Senior Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and has no arrangements or understandings with any person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Exchange Senior Securities) to trade such Exchange Senior Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of a substantial proportion of the several states of the United States.
Exchange Offer Registration.
In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i)      mail to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(ii)      keep the Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 business days (or longer if required by applicable federal and state securities laws) after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders;
(iii)      use the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer with respect to Senior Securities evidenced by global certificates;
(iv)      permit Holders to withdraw tendered Registrable Senior Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York City time, on the last business day on which the Exchange Offer shall remain open, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of Registrable Senior Securities delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing its election to have such Senior Securities exchanged; and
(v)      otherwise comply in all material respects with all applicable federal and state securities laws relating to the Exchange Offer.
As soon as practicable after the close of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
(i)      accept for exchange Registrable Senior Securities duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which is an exhibit thereto;
 
(ii)      deliver, or cause to be delivered, to the Trustee for cancellation all Registrable Senior Securities so accepted for exchange by the Company; and
(iii)      cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Exchange Senior Securities to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities equal in principal amount to the principal amount of the Registrable Senior Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
Interest on each Exchange Senior Security will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the Registrable Senior Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Registrable Senior Securities, from the Closing Time. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than (i) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, (ii) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer, (iii) that no law, rule or regulation or applicable interpretations of the staff of the SEC has been issued or promulgated which, in the good faith determination of the Company, does not permit the Company to effect the Exchange Offer and (iv) that the Holders tender the Registrable Senior Securities to the Company in accordance with the Exchange Offer.
Each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities (other than Participating Broker-Dealers) who wishes to exchange such Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that (i) it is not an affiliate (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act) of the Company or, if it is an affiliate, it will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the 1933 Act, to the extent applicable, (ii) any Exchange Senior Securities to be received by it will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (iii) at the time of the commencement of the Exchange Offer, it has no arrangement with any Person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Senior Securities or the Exchange Senior Securities, (iv) it is not acting on behalf of any person who could not truthfully make the foregoing representations and (v) it shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or another appropriate form under the 1933 Act available or for the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective. To the extent permitted by law, the Company shall inform the Initial Purchasers of the names and addresses of the Holders to whom the Exchange Offer is made, and the Initial Purchasers shall have the right to contact such Holders and otherwise facilitate the tender of Registrable Senior Securities in the Exchange Offer.
(b)      
Shelf Registration
(i)      If, because of any change in law or applicable interpretations thereof by the Staff of the SEC, the Company is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2(a) hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 365 days after the Closing Time (that if the Exchange Offer shall be consummated after the date that is 365 days after the Closing Time, then the Company's obligations under this clause (ii) arising from the failure of the Exchange Offer to be consummated by the date that is
provided
 
365 days after the Closing Time shall terminate), (iii) if any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) is not eligible to participate in the Exchange Offer or elects to participate in the Exchange Offer but does not receive fully tradable Exchange Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer or (iv) upon the written request of any of the Initial Purchasers within 90 days following the consummation of the Exchange Offer; that such Initial Purchaser shall hold Registrable Senior Securities that it acquired directly from the Company and if such Initial Purchaser is not permitted, in the reasonable opinion of counsel to such Initial Purchaser, pursuant to applicable law or applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC, to participate in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall, at its cost:
provided
(A)      file with the SEC a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the Registrable Senior Securities by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement;
(B)      use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Shelf Registration Statement to be declared effective by the SEC as promptly as practicable, but in no event later than the 365th day after the day the obligation to file such Shelf Registration Statement arises (or within 60 days of a request of any Initial Purchaser pursuant to Section 2(b)(iv) above, if later (the "Request Extension Period); that, with respect to Exchange Senior Securities received by a broker-dealer in exchange for any securities that were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making or other trading activities, the Company may, if permitted by current interpretations by the staff of the SEC, file a post-effective amendment to the Exchange Offer Registration Statement containing the information required by Regulation S-K Items 507 and/or 508, as applicable, in satisfaction of its obligations under paragraph (A) solely with respect to broker-dealers who acquired their Securities as a result of market-making or other trading activities, and any such Exchange Offer Registration Statement, as so amended, shall be referred to herein as, and governed by the provisions herein applicable to, a Shelf Registration Statement. In the event that the Company is required to file a Shelf Registration Statement upon the request of any Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser) not eligible to participate in the Exchange Offer pursuant to clause (iii) above or upon the request of any Initial Purchaser pursuant to clause (iv) above, the Company shall file and use its commercially reasonable efforts to have declared effective by the SEC both an Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) with respect to all Registrable Senior Securities and a Shelf Registration Statement (which may be a combined Registration Statement with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement) with respect to offers and sales of Registrable Senior Securities held by such Holder or such Initial Purchaser, as applicable, after completion of the Exchange Offer;
provided
(C)      use its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective, supplemented and amended as required, in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by
 
Holders for a period of two years, plus any extensions as provided in Section 2(d)(iii) below, after its effective date or such shorter period which will terminate when all of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (i) have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) cease to be outstanding or (iii) become eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1934 Act without volume restrictions; and
(D)      notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming a part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; ,, clauses (ii) and (iii) shall not apply to any information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement.
provided
however
The Company shall only permit Registrable Senior Securities to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement if reasonably requested by the Majority Holders with respect to information relating to the Holders and otherwise as required by Section 3(b) below, to use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause any such amendment to become effective and such Shelf Registration Statement to become usable as soon as practicable thereafter and to furnish to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC, to the extent not otherwise available on EDGAR.
(c)      . The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b). Each Holder shall pay all expenses of its counsel other than as set forth in the preceding sentence, underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
Expenses
(d)      .
Effective Registration Statement
(i)      The Company shall be deemed not to have used its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or the Shelf Registration Statement, as the case may be, to become, or to remain, effective during the requisite periods set forth herein if the Company voluntarily takes any action that could
 
reasonably be expected to result in any such Registration Statement not being declared effective or remaining effective or in the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities covered thereby not being able to exchange or offer and sell such Registrable Senior Securities during that period unless (A) such action is required by applicable law or (B) such action is taken by the Company in good faith and for valid business reasons (but not including avoidance of the Company's obligations hereunder), including the acquisition or divestiture of assets or a material corporate transaction or event so long as the Company promptly complies with the requirements of Section 3(k) hereof, if applicable.
(ii)      An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(a) hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof shall not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC; , , that if, after it has been declared effective, the offering of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement shall be deemed not to have been effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume.
provided
however
(iii)      During any 365-day period, the Company may suspend the availability of a Shelf Registration Statement and the use of the related Prospectus, as provided in Section 3(e)(vi) and the last paragraph of Section 3 hereof, without paying Additional Interest (as defined below) for up to four periods of up to 45 consecutive days (except for the consecutive 45-day period immediately prior to maturity of the Senior Securities), but no more than an aggregate 90 days during any 365-day period, if any event shall occur (A) as set forth in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) as a result of which it shall be necessary, in the good faith determination of the board of directors of the Company, to amend the Shelf Registration Statement or amend or supplement any prospectus or prospectus supplement thereunder in order that each such document not include any untrue statement of fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading in light of the circumstances under which they were made (a "Material Event Election"), that any period during which the Company requires Holders to refrain from disposing of their Registrable Senior Securities due to a Material Event Election (an "Election Period") shall be deemed to trigger the obligation of the Company to pay Additional Interest in accordance with Section 2(e) to the extent that such Election Period, together with all other days that the Shelf Registration Statement has become unusable in any consecutive twelve-month period, exceeds 90 days in the aggregate. The Two-Year Period provided for in Section 2(b)(B) above shall be extended by an amount of time equal to all such Election Periods.
provided
(e)      . In the event that (i) the Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 270th calendar day following the Closing Time, (ii) if required, a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Senior Securities is not declared effective on or prior to the 365th calendar day after the day the obligation to file such Shelf Registration Statement arises (or on or before the end of the Request Extension Period, if longer) or (iii) the Election Periods exceed, in the aggregate, 90 days during any 365-day period (each such event referred to in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above, a "Registration Default"), the per annum
Increase in Interest Rate
 
interest rate borne by the Registrable Senior Securities shall be increased by one-quarter of one percent (0.25%) per annum ("Additional Interest") during which noncompliance continues until all Registration Defaults have been cured. Upon (y) the consummation of the Exchange Offer, or (z) the effectiveness of a Shelf Registration Statement, any accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate borne by the Senior Securities from the date of such effectiveness or consummation, as the case may be, shall be reduced to the original interest rate if the Company is otherwise in compliance with this paragraph; ,, that, if after any such reduction in interest rate, a different event specified in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) above occurs, the interest rate shall again be increased pursuant to the foregoing provisions. No increase in the rate under clause (i) above shall be payable for any period during which a Shelf Registration is effective.
provided
however
(f)      . Without limiting the remedies available to the Initial Purchasers and the Holders, the Company acknowledges that any failure by the Company to comply with its obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof may result in material irreparable injury to the Initial Purchasers or the Holders for which there is no adequate remedy at law, that it will not be possible to measure damages for such injuries precisely and that, in the event of any such failure, the Initial Purchasers or any Holder may obtain such relief as may be required to specifically enforce the Company's obligations under Section 2(a) and Section 2(b).
Specific Enforcement
Section 3.      . In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to the Registration Statements pursuant to Section 2(a) and Section 2(b) hereof, the Company shall:
Registration Procedures
(a)      prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the time periods specified in Section 2, on the appropriate form under the 1933 Act, which form (i) shall be selected by the Company, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, be available for the sale of the Registrable Senior Securities by the selling Holders thereof and (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof;
(b)      prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 under the 1933 Act; and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act with respect to the disposition of all Senior Securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof;
(c)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, at least 15 days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Registrable Senior Securities is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of Registrable Senior Securities will be made in accordance with the
 
method elected by the Majority Holders; (ii) furnish to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, to counsel for the Initial Purchasers, to counsel for the Holders and to each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities, if any, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto and such other documents as such Holder or underwriter, or their counsel, may reasonably request, including financial statements and schedules and, if the Holder so reasonably requests, all exhibits (including those incorporated by reference) in order to facilitate the public sale or other disposition of the Registrable Senior Securities; and (iii) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto;
(d)      use its commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registrable Senior Securities under all applicable state securities or "blue sky" laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities covered by a Registration Statement and each underwriter of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, to cooperate with the Holders in connection with any filings required to be made with FINRA, keep each such registration or qualification effective during the period such Registration Statement is required to be effective and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registrable Senior Securities owned by such Holder; , , that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d) or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction;
provided
however
(e)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, notify each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities and counsel for such Holders promptly and, if requested by such Holder or counsel, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) if, between the effective date of a Registration Statement and the closing of any sale of Registrable Senior Securities covered thereby, the representations and warranties of the Company contained in any underwriting agreement, securities sales agreement or other similar agreement, if any, relating to such offering cease to be true and correct in all material respects, (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registrable Senior Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose, (vi) of the happening of any event or the discovery of
 
any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective (including as contemplated in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof) which (A) is contemplated in Section 2(d)(i) or (B) makes any statement made in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Shelf Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading and (vii) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement would be appropriate;
(f)      (A) in the case of an Exchange Offer, (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a "Plan of Distribution" section covering the use of the Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement by broker-dealers who have exchanged their Registrable Senior Securities for Exchange Senior Securities for the resale of such Exchange Senior Securities, (ii) furnish to each broker-dealer who desires to participate in the Exchange Offer, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto, as such broker-dealer may reasonably request, (iii) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a statement that any broker-dealer who holds Registrable Senior Securities acquired for its own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities (a "Participating Broker-Dealer"), and who receives Exchange Senior Securities for Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer, may be a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Senior Securities, (iv) subject to the last paragraph of this Section 3, hereby consent to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any broker-dealer in connection with the sale or transfer of the Exchange Senior Securities covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (v) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer the following provision:
"If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Senior Securities. If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Senior Securities for its own account in exchange for Registrable Senior Securities, it represents that the Registrable Senior Securities to be exchanged for Exchange Senior Securities were acquired by it as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Exchange Senior Securities pursuant to the Exchange Offer; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the 1933 Act;"
(B)      to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be
 
delivered at the request of an entity representing the Participating Broker-Dealers (which entity shall be Citigroup Global Markets Inc., unless it elects not to act as such representative) any "cold comfort" letters with respect to the Prospectus in the form existing on the last date for which exchanges are accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offer and with respect to each subsequent amendment or supplement, if any, effected during the period specified in clause (C) below;
(C)      to the extent any Participating Broker-Dealer participates in the Exchange Offer, the Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to maintain the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement for a period of 180 days following the closing of the Exchange Offer or such shorter period which will terminate when the Participating Broker-Dealers have completed all resales subject to applicable prospectus delivery requirements; and
(D)      the Company shall not be required to amend or supplement the Prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement as would otherwise be contemplated by Section 3(b) hereof, or take any other action as a result of this Section 3(f), for a period exceeding 180 days after the last date for which exchanges are accepted pursuant to the Exchange Offer (as such period may be extended by the Company) and Participating Broker-Dealers shall not be authorized by the Company to, and shall not, deliver such Prospectus after such period in connection with resales contemplated by this Section 3;
(g)      (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, furnish counsel for the Initial Purchasers and (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish counsel for the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities copies of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for amendments or supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information;
(h)      make its commercially reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement as soon as practicable and provide prompt notice to each Holder of the withdrawal of any such order;
(i)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, without charge, at least one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto (without documents incorporated therein by reference or exhibits thereto, unless requested);
(j)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing Registrable Senior Securities to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and cause such Registrable Senior Securities to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request in writing at least one business day prior to the closing of any sale of Registrable Senior Securities;
 
(k)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Section 3(e)(vi) hereof, use its commercially reasonable efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to a Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the Registrable Senior Securities, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company agrees to notify each Holder to suspend use of the Prospectus as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, and each Holder hereby agrees to suspend use of the Prospectus until the Company has amended or supplemented the Prospectus to correct such misstatement or omission. At such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, the Company agrees promptly to notify each Holder of such determination and to furnish each Holder such numbers of copies of the Prospectus, as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request;
(l)      obtain CUSIP numbers, ISINs and common codes for all Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with printed certificates for the Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary;
(m)      (i) cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended (the "TIA"), in connection with the registration of the Exchange Senior Securities, or Registrable Senior Securities, as the case may be, (ii) cooperate with the Trustee and the Holders to effect such changes to the Indenture as may be required for the Indenture to be so qualified in accordance with the terms of the TIA and (iii) execute, and use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Trustee to execute, all documents as may be required to effect such changes, and all other forms and documents required to be filed with the SEC to enable the Indenture to be so qualified in a timely manner;
(n)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (including underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions (including those reasonably requested by the Majority Holders of the Registrable Senior Securities being sold) in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such Registrable Senior Securities and in such connection, whether or not an underwriting agreement is entered into and whether or not the registration is an underwritten registration, in a manner that is reasonable and customary:
(i)      make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
 
(ii)      obtain an opinion of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinion (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Registrable Senior Securities being sold) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters;
(iii)      obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants addressed to the underwriters, if any, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to have such letters addressed to the selling Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings;
(iv)      enter into a securities sales agreement with the Holders and an agent of the Holders providing for, among other things, the appointment of such agent for the selling Holders for the purpose of soliciting purchases of Registrable Senior Securities, which agreement shall be in form, substance and scope customary for similar offerings;
(v)      if an underwriting agreement is entered into in the case of an underwritten offering, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 5 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to Section 5 hereof; and
(vi)      deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested by the underwriters or the Holders and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings.
The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and, if appropriate, each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder. In the case of any underwritten offering, the Company shall provide written notice to the Holders of all Registrable Senior Securities of such underwritten offering at least thirty days prior to the filing of a prospectus supplement for such underwritten offering. Such notice shall (x) offer each such Holder the right to participate in such underwritten offering, (y) specify a date, which shall be no earlier than ten business days following the date of such notice, by which such Holder must inform the Company of its intent to participate in such underwritten offering and (z) include the instructions such Holder must follow in order to participate in such underwritten offering;
(o)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, make available for inspection by representatives of the Holders of the Registrable Senior Securities and any underwriters
 
participating in any disposition pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement and any U.S. counsel or accountant retained by such Holders or underwriters, all financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company reasonably requested by any such Persons, and cause the respective officers, directors, employees, and any other agents of the Company to supply all information reasonably requested by any such representative, underwriter, special counsel or accountant in connection with a Registration Statement; that any such records, documents, properties and such information that is designated in writing by the Company, in good faith, as confidential at the time of delivery of such records, documents, properties or information shall be kept confidential by any such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant and shall be used only in connection with such Shelf Registration Statement, unless such information has become available (not in violation of this Agreement) to the public generally or through a third party without an accompanying obligation of confidentiality, and except that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant shall have no liability, and shall not be in breach of this provision, if disclosure of such confidential information is made in connection with a court proceeding or required by law, and the Company shall be entitled to request that such representative, underwriter, counsel or accountant sign a confidentiality agreement to the foregoing effect. Each such person will be required to agree that information obtained by it as a result of such inspections shall be deemed confidential and shall not be used by it as the basis for any market transactions in the securities of the Company unless and until such is made generally available to the public through no fault or action of such person. Each selling Holder of such Registrable Senior Securities will be required to further agree that it will, upon learning that disclosure of confidential information is necessary, give notice to the Company to allow the Company at its expense to undertake appropriate action to prevent disclosure of the confidential information;
provided
(p)      (i) in the case of an Exchange Offer, within a reasonable time prior to the filing of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to a Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Initial Purchasers, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Initial Purchasers or their counsel may reasonably request; (ii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, within a reasonable time prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement, any Prospectus forming a part thereof, any amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement or amendment or supplement to such Prospectus, provide copies of such document to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, to the Initial Purchasers, to counsel on behalf of the Holders and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of Registrable Senior Securities, if any, and make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as counsel to the Initial Purchasers, the Holders or any underwriter may reasonably request; and (iii) cause the representatives of the Company to be available for discussion of such document as shall be reasonably requested by the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders or any underwriter, and shall not at any time make any filing of any such document of which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall not have previously been advised and furnished a copy
 
or to which such Holders, the Initial Purchasers on behalf of such Holders, their counsel or any underwriter shall reasonably object within a reasonable time period;
(q)      in the case of a Shelf Registration, use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause the Registrable Senior Securities to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by the Majority Holders or by the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering, unless the Registrable Senior Securities are already so rated;
(r)      otherwise use its commercially reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC and make available to its security holders, as soon as reasonably practicable, an earnings statement covering at least twelve months which shall satisfy the provisions of Section 11(a) of the 1933 Act and Rule 158 thereunder; and
(s)      cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with FINRA and in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, the Company may (as a condition to such Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration) require each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities to furnish to the Company or its counsel such information regarding such Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such Registrable Senior Securities, as the Company may from time to time reasonably request, and agree in writing to be bound by the Agreement, including the indemnification provisions.
In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections Section 2(d)(i) and Section 3(e)(ii)-(vii) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of (i) the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(k) hereof or (ii) written notice from the Company that the Shelf Registration Statement is once again effective and that no supplement or amendment is required. If so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at the Company's expense) all copies in its possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such Registrable Senior Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice.
If the Company shall give any such notice to suspend the disposition of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement as a result of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Sections Section 2(d)(i) and Section 3(e)(vi) hereof, the Company shall be deemed to have used its commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during such period of suspension; provided that (i) such period of suspension shall not exceed the time periods provided in Section 2(d)(iii) hereof and (ii) the Company shall, if necessary, use its commercially reasonable efforts to file and have declared effective (if an amendment) as soon as practicable an amendment or supplement to the Shelf Registration Statement and shall extend the period during which the Registration Statement shall be maintained effective pursuant to this Agreement by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of
 
such notice to and including the date when the Holders shall have received copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus necessary to resume such dispositions.
Section 4.      . If any of the Registrable Senior Securities covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will manage the offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such Registrable Senior Securities included in such offering and shall be reasonably acceptable to the Company.
Underwritten Offerings
No Holder of Registrable Senior Securities may participate in any underwritten offering hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's Registrable Senior Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
Section 5.      .
Indemnification and Contribution
(a)      The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Initial Purchaser, each Holder, including Participating Broker-Dealers, each underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, their respective affiliates and each Person, if any, who controls any Initial Purchaser or any Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Initial Purchaser, any Holder or any such controlling or affiliated Person in connection with defending or investigating any such action or claim) caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof, pursuant to which Exchange Senior Securities or Registrable Senior Securities were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (as amended or supplemented if the Company shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein in light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, except insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities are caused by any such untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission based upon information relating to any Initial Purchaser or any Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Initial Purchaser or by or relating to any Holder or underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, in each case expressly for use therein.
(b)      Each Holder agrees, severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each Initial Purchaser, each underwriter who participates in an offering of Registrable Senior Securities, and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers (including each director and officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement) and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, any Initial Purchaser, any underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of either Section 15 of
 
the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act from and against any and all losses, claims, damages and liabilities (including, without limitation, any legal or other expenses described in the indemnity contained in Section 5(a), as incurred), but only with reference to information relating to such Holder furnished to the Company in writing by such Holder expressly for use in any Registration Statement or any amendment thereof or any Prospectus or any amendments or supplements thereto.
(c)      In case any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted involving any Person in respect of which indemnity may be sought pursuant to either paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) above, such Person (the "indemnified party") shall promptly notify the person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the "indemnifying party") in writing (but the failure to so notify the indemnifying party will not relieve it from any liability which it may have to any indemnified party except to the extent it is materially prejudiced or harmed) and the indemnifying party, upon request of the indemnified party, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the indemnified party to represent the indemnified party and any others the indemnifying party may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any indemnified party shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such indemnified party unless (i) the indemnifying party and the indemnified party shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such counsel or (ii) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the indemnifying party and the indemnified party and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential differing interests between them. It is understood that the indemnifying party shall not, in respect of the legal expenses of any indemnified party in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for (a) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Initial Purchasers and all Persons, if any, who control any Initial Purchaser within the meaning of either Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, (b) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for the Company, its directors, its officers who sign the Registration Statement and all Persons, if any, who control the Company within the meaning of either such Section and (c) the fees and expenses of more than one separate firm (in addition to any local counsel) for all Holders and all Persons, if any, who control any Holders within the meaning of either such Section, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. In the case of any such separate firm for the Initial Purchasers and such control Persons of the Initial Purchasers, such firm shall be designated in writing by Citigroup Global Markets Inc. In the case of any such separate firm for the Holders and such Persons who control Holders, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Majority Holders. In all other cases, such firm shall be designated in writing by the Company. The indemnifying party shall not be liable for any settlement of any proceeding affected without its written consent, but if settled with such consent or if there is a final judgment for the plaintiff, the indemnifying party agrees to indemnify the indemnified party from and against any loss or liability by reason of such settlement or judgment. Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, if at any time an indemnified party shall have requested an indemnifying party to reimburse the indemnified party for fees and expenses of counsel as contemplated by the second and third sentences of this paragraph, the indemnifying party agrees that it shall be liable for any settlement of any proceeding effected without its written consent if (i) such settlement is entered into more than 30 days after receipt by such indemnifying party of the aforesaid request
 
and (ii) such indemnifying party shall not have reimbursed the indemnified party in accordance with such request prior to the date of such settlement. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened proceeding in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party, unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on claims that are the subject matter of such proceeding and (ii) does not include a statement as to an admission of fault, culpability or failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d)      If the indemnification provided for in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b) of this Section 5 is unavailable to an indemnified party or insufficient in respect of any losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to therein, then each indemnifying party under such paragraph, in lieu of indemnifying such indemnified party thereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of such losses, claims, damages or liabilities in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and of the indemnified party or parties on the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of such indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party or parties on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by such indemnifying party or parties or such indemnified party or parties, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The respective obligations of the Company, the Initial Purchasers, and the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities to contribute pursuant to this Section 5 are several in proportion to the respective principal amounts of Senior Securities they have purchased hereunder, and not joint.
(e)      The Company, the Initial Purchasers, and each Holder of Registrable Senior Securities agree that it would not be just or equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 5 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Initial Purchasers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation that does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in paragraph (d) above. The amount paid or payable by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages and liabilities referred to in paragraph (d) above shall be deemed to include, subject to the limitations set forth above, any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any such action or claim. Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section 5, no Holder shall be required to indemnify or contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which Registrable Senior Securities were sold by such Holder exceeds the amount of any damages that such Holder has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 5, each Person, if any, who controls an Initial Purchaser or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Initial Purchaser or Holder, and each
 
director of the Company, each officer of the Company who signed the Registration Statement, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. The remedies provided for in this Section 5 are not exclusive and shall not limit any rights or remedies which may otherwise be available to any indemnified party at law or in equity.
The indemnity and contribution provisions contained in this Section 5 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of (i) any termination of this Agreement, (ii) any investigation made by or on behalf of any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or any Person controlling any Initial Purchaser or any Holder, or by or on behalf of the Company, its officers or directors or any Person controlling the Company, (iii) acceptance of any of the Exchange Senior Securities and (iv) any sale of Registrable Senior Securities pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement.
Section 6.      .
Miscellaneous
(a)      . For so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act, the Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder, that if it ceases to be so required to file such reports, it will upon the request of any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities (i) make publicly available or cause to be made publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (ii) deliver or cause to be delivered such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, and (iii) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its Registrable Senior Securities without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (x) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (y) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (z) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC. Upon the written request of any Holder of Registrable Senior Securities, the Company will deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements.
Rule 144 and Rule 144A
(b)      . The Company has not entered into nor will the Company on or after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of Registrable Senior Securities in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not in any way conflict with and are not inconsistent with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements.
No Inconsistent Agreements
(c)      . The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the material provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of the Majority Holders of the outstanding Registrable Senior Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure.
Amendments and Waivers
 
(d)      . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if mailed or transmitted by any standard form of telecommunication, excluding e-mail (i) if to a Holder (other than an Initial Purchaser), at the most current address set forth on the records of the Registrar under the Indenture, (ii) if to an Initial Purchaser, at the most current address given by such Initial Purchaser to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d), which address initially is the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and (iii) if to the Company, initially at the address set forth in the Purchase Agreement and thereafter at such other address, notice of which is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6(d).
Notices
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; five business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if telecopied; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery.
Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the Person giving the same to the Trustee, at the address specified in the Indenture.
(e)      . This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of Registrable Senior Securities in violation of the terms hereof or of the Purchase Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire Registrable Senior Securities, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such Registrable Senior Securities shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such Registrable Senior Securities, such Person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Purchase Agreement, and such Person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof.
Successors and Assigns
(f)      . The Holders shall be third party beneficiaries to the agreements made hereunder between the Company, on the one hand, and the Initial Purchasers, on the other hand, and shall have the right to enforce such agreements directly to the extent they deem such enforcement necessary or advisable to protect their rights or the rights of Holders hereunder.
Third Party Beneficiary
(g)      . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
(h)      . The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
(i)      . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE CONFLICTS OF LAW PROVISIONS THEREOF.
GOVERNING LAW
(j)      . In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above.
 
Confirmed and Accepted, as of the
date first above written:
CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.
MIZUHO SECURITIES USA INC.
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. LLC
 
For itself and the other Initial Purchasers
named in Schedule A to this Agreement.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
Mizuho Securities USA Inc.
Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC
SMBC Nikko Capital Markets Limited
Lloyds Securities Inc.
U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
BNY Mellon Capital Markets, LLC
The Williams Capital Group, L.P.
Santander Investment Securities Inc.
Banca IMI S.p.A.


