FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20030116083336.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5. Other Events
 
We are filing this Form 8-K to disclose changes in the way we report the results of our operating segments. This change in presentation is being made to reflect the way we measure recurring operations in evaluating segment performance. In the new presentation, the effects of unusual items not considered part of the segment's operating performance and evaluation are now included in a new caption called "Unallocated corporate income (expense), net." As discussed below, we have changed the way we report income or expense for our qualified defined benefit pension plans and the expense for our stock-based Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Program (LTIP) in our segment results. We will also now report our corporate activities in "Unallocated corporate income (expense), net" and have eliminated the "Corporate and Other" operating segment.
 
These changes in reporting of our segment operating results are consistent with the methodology we recently adopted for our 2003 operating plan. As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 131 "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information," we have reclassified all prior periods to conform the reporting of our segment operating results to the measurement used by our senior management to evaluate our segments' operating performance.
 
SFAS No. 87 "Employers Accounting for Pensions" determines pension income or expense for financial reporting purposes under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), not necessarily the funding requirements of pension plans, which are determined by other factors. A major factor for determining pension funding requirements is the Cost Accounting Standard (CAS) that governs the extent of allocability and recoverability for pension costs on government contracts.
 
Previously, our segment operating results included pension income as determined under SFAS No. 87. This amount consisted of pension expense as determined and funded in accordance with CAS rules (CAS pension expense) and an adjustment (SFAS/CAS income adjustment) to reconcile the CAS expense to the SFAS No. 87 pension income. The CAS pension expense is recovered through the pricing of our products and services and as such, recognized as net sales in the respective segments.
 
Our segment operating results will now only include pension expense as determined under CAS rules and the resulting net sales effect. The SFAS/CAS income adjustment will now be included in a reconciling line item called "Unallocated corporate income (expense), net" to determine the total consolidated results under GAAP.
 
We do not include the cost of stock-based award programs in segment results, since this cost is not included in senior management's evaluation of our segment operating performance. Consequently, all stock-based costs, including those of our LTIP plan, will also be reported in "Unallocated corporate income (expense), net" rather than allocated to the operating segments as was previously the case.
 
The Corporation operates in four operating segments. Following is a brief description of the activities of each business segment:
 
 
 
 
 
Unallocated corporate income (expense), net includes earnings and losses from our equity investments (mainly telecommunications), interest income, corporate costs not allocated to the operating segments, unusual items not considered part of the segment's operating performance, the SFAS/CAS income adjustment, stock-based costs and other miscellaneous corporate activity.
 
The following segment information has been reclassified from amounts previously reported to reflect the above noted changes.
 
Selected Financial Data by Business Segment 
(Unaudited)
 
 
 
See accompanying notes to selected financial data by business segment
 
 
Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued) 
(Unaudited)
 
 
See accompanying notes to selected financial data by business segment
 
Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued) 
(Unaudited)
 
 
See accompanying notes to selected financial data by business segment
 
 
Notes to Selected Financial Data by Business Segment
 
F-16 intangible asset is now reflected in the reconciling line item "SFAS No. 142 Adoption Impact" for all periods prior to January 1, 2002. This reclassification provides our management with consistent financial information for evaluating the comparative performance of our operating segments. In the 2002 quarterly reports, these amounts were included in the "Corporate and Other" segment results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 


