FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20040311153159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are filing this Form 8-K to provide updated Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information in connection with the proposed merger of The Titan Corporation with and into a subsidiary of the Corporation and to supplement the information included in the Corporation's registration statements on Form S-4 (Nos. 333-109725 and 333-110625) relating to the proposed merger. The Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information set forth below reflects the proposed merger as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, based on the purchase method of accounting. This information is based upon Lockheed Martin's and Titan's historical consolidated financial statements included in their respective Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements are based upon Lockheed Martin's and Titan's historical consolidated financial statements set forth in their respective Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003 (2003 Form 10-K), and have been prepared to reflect the proposed merger based on the purchase method of accounting. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings, which has been prepared for the year ended December 31, 2003 gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred at the beginning of 2003. The unaudited pro forma combined condensed balance sheet has been prepared as of December 31, 2003 and gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred on that date. Lockheed Martin prepared the unaudited pro forma adjustments based upon the audited financial statements of Titan included in its Form 10-K and additional financial data requested from Titan, and upon preliminary estimates and assumptions. The final determination of the fair market value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the final allocation of the purchase price are expected to be finalized within one year of the date of the merger and will be reflected in future filings. The final determinations may result in amounts that are materially different from the amounts reflected in the pro forma data presented herein and are subject to adjustment pending such final determinations.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements are not necessarily indicative of actual or future financial position or results of operations that would have occurred or will occur upon completion of the merger. These statements do not include the effects of any estimated transition or restructuring costs which may be incurred in connection with integrating the operations of Titan into Lockheed Martin. It is not possible at this time to estimate the effect of such costs for pro forma purposes. Additionally, the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings does not reflect any net cost savings or economies of scale that may have occurred had the merger been completed at the beginning of the respective periods.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined condensed financial statements are based upon, and should be read in conjunction with, the historical consolidated financial statements of Lockheed Martin and Titan, including the respective notes, set forth in their respective 2003 Form 10-K's.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As described in the Form S-4's filed by Lockheed Martin in connection with the proposed merger with Titan, Lockheed Martin has agreed to acquire each outstanding common share of Titan for $22.00 per share in cash, Lockheed Martin common stock or a combination of cash and Lockheed Martin common stock. Titan stockholders who make a cash election or a stock election will likely have the form of their merger consideration adjusted as a result of the allocation provisions of the merger agreement that require that 50% of Titan's outstanding shares of common stock at the effective time of the merger (excluding shares held by Titan stockholders who have perfected dissenters' rights or any shares held by Lockheed Martin or Titan) be exchanged for Lockheed Martin common stock and the remaining 50% of Titan's outstanding shares of common stock be exchanged for cash. Shares of Titan common stock will be exchanged for shares of Lockheed Martin common stock based on an exchange rate determined by dividing $22.00 by the average Lockheed Martin price during a ten-day measurement period. The average Lockheed Martin price will be subject to lower and upper limits, or "collars" of $46.00 and $58.00. The computation of the purchase price follows (in millions):
 
 
 
Reclassifications have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma combined condensed statement of earnings and balance sheet to conform the presentation of income tax balances, assets and liabilities of discontinued operations and other items to the format used by Lockheed Martin.
 
 
The following adjustments are provided to reflect the merger on a pro forma basis:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The assumed issuance of 19.5 million shares of Lockheed Martin common stock is included in the average number of common shares outstanding for the basic earnings per share amount. The dilutive stock option amount includes the assumption of Titan's stock options by Lockheed Martin. Using Lockheed Martin's treasury stock method, 2.3 million shares were included for Titan's stock options.
 
 
 
The following table presents historical and unaudited pro forma per share data of Lockheed Martin and Titan as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003. The data presented below should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements of Lockheed Martin and Titan set forth in their respective 2003 Form 10-K's and the pro forma financial information set forth under "Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information."
 
Diluted earnings per share data are calculated using the diluted weighted average equivalent shares. Because the number of shares of Lockheed Martin common stock to be issued in the merger will not be known until three trading days prior to the completion of the merger, Titan's equivalent per share data cannot be computed at this time. Hypothetical Titan equivalent per share data is presented below using the average of the daily mean of the high and low sales prices per share of Lockheed Martin common stock for the ten trading days ended on March 5, 2004, which was $46.2260, and a resulting hypothetical exchange rate of 0.4759, and assumes no exercise of dissenters' rights by Titan stockholders. Titan's hypothetical equivalent per share data was calculated by multiplying the unaudited pro forma per Lockheed Martin share data by the hypothetical exchange rate of 0.4759.
 
Pro forma earnings per share from continuing operations were derived from the pro forma information presented under "Unaudited Pro Forma Combined Condensed Financial Information." Pro forma cash dividends per share reflect Lockheed Martin's cash dividends paid in the period indicated. The historical book value per share information was based upon outstanding shares of common stock for each company. The number of outstanding shares of Lockheed Martin common stock used in calculating the pro forma data has been adjusted to include the shares of Lockheed Martin common stock estimated to be issued in the merger, based upon the number of shares of Titan common stock outstanding at December 31, 2003.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


