FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20041221163934.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
As previously announced, Dain M. Hancock, Executive Vice President and President of Lockheed Martin Corporation's Aeronautics Company, will retire after nearly 40 years of service. Ralph D. Heath will succeed Mr. Hancock, effective January 17, 2005.
 
On December 16, 2004, in order to continue an orderly transition of management within the Aeronautics business area, the Corporation entered into a Professional Services Agreement with Dain M. Hancock to provide historical background information, factual and management assistance, guidance and counsel to the Aeronautics Executive Vice President on matters involving operation of the business area. A copy of the Professional Services Agreement is provided as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
December 21, 2004
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
This Professional Services Agreement is made and entered into effective as of April 1, 2005 by and between Lockheed Martin Corporation, a Maryland corporation, located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817 (hereinafter "LMC") and Dain M. Hancock located at 8881 Random Road, Fort Worth, TX 76179 (hereinafter "CONTRACTOR").
 
WITNESSED:
 
That in consideration of the promises and mutual obligations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
The term of this Agreement shall commence on April 1, 2005 and end on March 31, 2006. Upon mutual agreement of the parties, this Agreement may be extended beyond March 31, 2006.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONTRACTOR is an independent contractor in all its operations and activities hereunder. CONTRACTOR and LMC agree that CONTRACTOR will render Services according to CONTRACTOR'S own methods and is subject to LMC's control only with regard to the CONTRACTOR'S final product or result. LMC shall not exercise direct control or supervision over the means that CONTRACTOR uses to accomplish CONTRACTOR'S work. The Parties understand and agree that CONTRACTOR is not an employee of LMC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be governed by, subject to, and construed according to the laws of the State of Maryland excluding its choice of law rules. CONTRACTOR shall comply with all applicable Federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations, as well as with all LMC policies, operating instructions, rules and regulations applicable to the performance of this Agreement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If any provision of this Agreement (including the provisions of Addendum A) shall be held illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement or the application of any other provisions to the parties shall not be affected thereby.
 
If access to classified information in the performance of this Agreement is required, CONTRACTOR shall furnish the LMC Security Department with all data required to obtain or verify a personal security clearance with access to such Classified Information. Under no circumstances shall CONTRACTOR perform service(s) involving access to classified information until CONTRACTOR'S security clearance has been obtained or verified by LMC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any assignment of CONTRACTOR'S contract rights or delegation of duties shall be void, unless prior written consent is given by LMC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
All disputes under this Agreement which are not disposed of by mutual agreement may be decided by recourse to an action at law or in equity. Until final resolution of any dispute hereunder, CONTRACTOR shall diligently proceed with the performance of this Agreement as directed by LMC.
 
 
No gratuities (in the form of entertainment, gifts or otherwise) or kickbacks shall be offered or given by CONTRACTOR, to any employee of LMC with a view toward securing favorable treatment as a supplier.
 
 
 
Except as required by law, no public release of any information, or confirmation or denial of same, with respect to this Agreement or the subject matter hereof, will be made by CONTRACTOR without the prior written approval of LMC,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
Receipt and Acknowledgment
 
I acknowledge that I have received my personal copy of Setting the Standard, the Lockheed Martin Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. I understand that each Lockheed Martin employee, agent, consultant, or representative is responsible for knowing and adhering to the principles and standards of the Code.
 
 
In consideration for the execution of the Professional Services Agreement to which this Addendum A is attached and the fees to paid thereunder, I, Dain M. Hancock, agree to the following:
 
1. Restrictions Following Termination of Employment:
 
(a) For the two-year period following the effective date of the Professional Services Agreement (April 1, 2005 through March 31, 2007), I will not, on my own or in association with others, either be directly or indirectly employed by or engage in or be associated with or tender advice or services as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner, consultant or otherwise by or with any corporation, partnership, or other business considered to be a Competitor of the Corporation. During that two-year period, I also agree not to interfere with, disrupt, or attempt to disrupt the relationship, contractual or otherwise, between the Corporation and any customer, supplier or employee of the Corporation. This paragraph 1(a) will not apply if the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation waives in writing the restrictions of this paragraph 1(a) as it applies to a particular position or Competitor.
 
(b) Following my termination of employment with the Corporation, I will refrain from making any statement adverse to the interests of the Corporation where it is reasonably foreseeable or intended that the statement would cause material harm to the Corporation either financially or by a diminution in reputation.
 
(c) I acknowledge and agree that the scope and duration of the restrictions set forth in this Addendum A are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the Professional Services Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation's legitimate business interests from unfair competition as a result of the high level executive and management positions I have held within the Corporation and the attendant access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation's Proprietary Information.
 
(d) I acknowledge that the Corporation's remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of this Covenant Not To Compete, and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action for damages), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor without proof of actual damages and to specific performance of any such provisions of this Covenant Not To Compete.
 
(e) It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Covenant Not To Compete shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible
under the laws and public policies applied in each jurisdiction in which enforcement is sought. Accordingly, if any particular portion of this Covenant Not To Compete is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this Covenant Not to Compete shall be deemed amended to delete therefrom the portion thus adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.
 
2. For purposes of this Addendum A, "" means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., the European Aeronautical Defense and Space Company NV (EADS), or any successor to all or part of the business of any such company as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, operation of law or similar transaction.
Competitor
 
3. This Covenant Not To Compete shall be governed by and interpreted in a manner consistent with the laws of the State of Maryland without reference to the principles of conflicts of law.
 


