FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20050628160811.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
On June 23, 2005, Lockheed Martin Corporation's Board of Directors amended the Lockheed Martin Management Incentive Compensation Plan ("MICP"). A copy of the MICP, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 99 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference. The amendments are effective for the 2005 plan year and increase the targeted percentage of base salary potentially payable as incentive compensation for specified management participant positions, including the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice Presidents.
 
Under the MICP, executives have the opportunity to earn incentive compensation based on an assessment of their performance under individual and business unit (or corporate) goals by the Management Development and Compensation Committee and the Stock Option Subcommittee (together the "Committee") of the Board of Directors. Each eligible participant is assigned a targeted percentage (ranging from 15 percent to 125 percent) of base salary determined by the level of importance and responsibility of the participant's position in the Corporation. The MICP also permits the Committee or the Board of Directors to adopt a different targeted percentage for any elected officer. The amount of incentive compensation generated by the target percentage is adjusted upwards or downwards after assessment by the Committee of business area and/or corporate performance, as well as an individual's contribution to that performance. Following adjustment for business area and/or corporate and individual performance ratings, the bonuses payable under the MICP to participants can range from 0 percent to 195 percent of the targeted percentage.
 
Each year the Committee examines compensation information compiled by an independent executive compensation consultant from a group of 25 publicly held companies (referred to as the "Comparator Group") of a size, complexity and quality similar to that of the Corporation. The increase in the targeted percentages effected by the amendment is intended to more closely align the Corporation's annual incentive compensation targets to the ranges for similar positions in the Corporation's Comparator Group.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
June 28, 2005
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Plan is established to provide a further incentive to selected employees to promote the success of Lockheed Martin Corporation by providing an opportunity to receive additional compensation for above average performance measured against individual and business unit goals. The Plan is intended to achieve the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Those Employees who through their efforts are able to contribute significantly to the success of the Company in any given calendar year will be considered eligible for selection for participation in the Plan with respect to that year. Participants are selected each Plan Year based on recommendations by the Business Area Executive Vice Presidents or corporate function heads and have received the endorsement of the Executive Office. Those eligible shall include all Employees considered by the Committee to be key Employees of the Company. No member of the Committee shall be eligible for participation in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- Organizational Performance Factors, as provided for in Exhibit A, shall be determined by the Executive Office and shall thereafter be reviewed with and be subject to the approval of the Committee. The Committee may make adjustments in any such factor as it considers appropriate. The Executive Office shall, as soon as feasible in each year, review with the Committee the company and corporate objectives which may relate to the determination of such Organizational Performance Factors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Plan shall be administered under the direction of the Committee. The Committee shall have the right to construe the Plan, to interpret any provision thereof, to make rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to determine any factual question arising in connection with the Plan's operation after such investigation or hearing as the Committee may deem appropriate. Any decision made by the Committee under the provisions of this Article shall be conclusive and binding on all parties concerned. The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose. Notwithstanding the target levels noted on Exhibit A, the Committee and the Board of Directors (as appropriate) may adopt a different target level for any elected officer.
 
 
 
The Board of Directors shall have the right to terminate or amend this Plan at any time and to discontinue further appropriations thereto.
 
 
 
The Plan shall be effective with respect to the operations of the Company for the year 1995 and the years subsequent thereto. A Participant who receives an award from this Plan is no longer eligible for any incentive compensation payment from any similar plan which may have been administered by the Lockheed Corporation or the Martin Marietta Corporation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any deviation requires Corporate Salary Board approval.
 
 
Any deviation requires Business Area Executive Vice President or Executive Office review and approval as appropriate.
 
 
 
 
Target levels are based on the level of importance and responsibility of the position in the organization as determined by the Business Area Executive Vice President and/or major corporate function head subject to approval by the Executive Office.
 
 
 
 
Individual performance factors are normally in increments of 0.05 and will have the following definitions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


