FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20050120160559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
As previously announced, Ralph D. Heath was elected Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin Corporation and President of Lockheed Martin's Aeronautics Company, effective January 17, 2005, succeeding Dain M. Hancock, who is retiring after nearly 40 years of service.
 
The Corporation has an existing Executive Retention Agreement with Mr. Heath. A copy of the Executive Retention Agreement is provided as Exhibit 99 to this report.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
January 20, 2005
 

Exhibit 99
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
6801 Rockledge Drive Bethesda, MD 20817
Telephone 3018976000
 
LOCKHEED MARTIN
 
 
this agreement between Lockheed Martin Corporation Aeronautics Company (the "Business Unit") and Ralph D. Heath (the "Executive") is to provide for continuity of management and the success of business operations for a major program by ensuring the commitment of the Executive to continue to serve the Business Unit diligently for a three-year period. The retention payment herein provided is intended to be consideration for the successful performance and satisfaction of the criteria set forth in Paragraph 2 by the personal services of the Executive.
The purpose of
 
1. Term of Agreement
 
This agreement will be in effect from the date of execution through July 1, 2006, unless terminated earlier in accordance with Paragraph 5 or 6.
 
2. Criteria for Retention Payment
 
The executive will be eligible for payments under this agreement if:
 
 
 
3. Amount of Retention Payment
 
The retention payment under this agreement will be $400,000. This payment is in addition to the Executive's continued participation in the Corporation's annual bonus and long-term incentive programs.
Key Executive Retention Agreement
Page 2
 
4. Payment of Retention Amount
 
The retention payment under this agreement shall be paid in two installments. The first installment will be $150,000 and will be payable within 30 days after July 1, 2005, or within 60 days of notice of termination if the executive becomes eligible for a payment under Paragraph 5. The second installment will be $250,000 and will be payable within 30 days after July 1, 2006, or within 60 days of notice of termination if the Executive becomes eligible for a payment under Paragraph 5.
 
5. Layoff, Disability or Death
 
If during the term of this agreement, the Executive (i) becomes disabled, or (ii) dies, the Executive will be eligible for a pro rata retention payment under this agreement. The pro rata payment shall be calculated by multiplying the total potential payment ($400,000) by a fraction, the numerator being the number of months prior to disability or death, and the denominator being the total number of months of the term of agreement. The amount so calculated shall be reduced by any installment payment already made. For a layoff, payment will be made in full in addition to any severance payments otherwise due the Executive.
 
6. Retirement, Resignation or Termination for Cause
 
If the Executive retires, resigns or is discharged for cause during the term of this agreement, the Executive will not be eligible for any remaining payment under this agreement, and the agreement will be terminated immediately.
 
7. Termination of Agreement
 
This retention agreement will terminate on July 1, 2006.
 
8. No Contract of Employment
 
This agreement does not limit the ability of either the Executive or Lockheed Martin to terminate the employment relationship at will.
 
9. No Assignment
 
No benefit payable under this agreement may be assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered or subjected to any legal process for the payment of any claim against the Executive.
Key Executive Retention Agreement
Page 3
 
10. Governing Law
 
This agreement shall be governed in all respects by and in accordance with the laws of the State of Maryland without regard to its conflict of law provisions.
 
If you agree to all terms and provisions of this agreement, please indicate your acceptance by signing below.
 


