FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20070703153158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On June 28, 2007, the Board of Directors amended the Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for elected officers (the "PRDB Plan") and two predecessor plans. The Corporation had previously limited this benefit to officers elected prior to January 1, 2007. The amendment terminates the death benefit for active officers and provides for a one-time, termination cash payment based on the present value of the projected future death benefit. Officers who retired and are eligible for benefits under the terms of the PRDB Plan may elect to either receive a cash payment for the present value of their projected future death benefit, or may continue to participate in the PRDB Plan. The termination cash payments are scheduled to be made in March 2008.
Prior to the amendment, certain retired elected officers were entitled to receive a cash benefit upon their death equal to 1.5 times their final annual base salary. Under the amended PRDB Plan, the termination cash payment will be calculated using actuarial assumptions regarding the officer's mortality, the discount rate used for determining the projected benefit obligation for our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benfit plans as reported in our financial statements on Form 10-K for the year ending December 31, 2006 and, in the case of active officers, projected salary at retirement.
The termination cash payment amounts for the Corporation's active named executive officers are as follows: Robert J. Stevens ($1,040,000); Christopher E. Kubasik ($571,000); Robert B. Coutts ($570,000); and Ralph D. Heath ($420,000). The termination payments to the active named executive officers will be substantially less than the death benefit that would have been paid upon their death following retirement at age 65 under the terms of the PRDB Plan prior to amendment. Two of the named executive officers listed in the Corporation's 2007 proxy statement have retired: Michael F. Camardo (who will receive a termination cash payment of $463,000 or alternatively may elect to continue to participate in the PRDB Plan); and Stanton D. Sloan (who was not eligible for a benefit under the PRDB Plan). The PRDB Plan, as amended, is appended as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
The Board concurrently amended the Corporation's Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "DMICP") to permit participants to defer the termination payments associated with the PRDB Plan amendment into their DMICP accounts. Under the DMICP, participants currently may elect to invest deferrals of their incentive or other compensation into Lockheed Martin stock units or an interest bearing investment. The DMICP, as amended, is appended as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
July 3, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers is intended to provide a means for attracting and retaining capable individuals as senior executive employees of the Corporation. It is further intended to encourage the Corporation's most talented and experienced executives to remain with the Corporation until retirement age while at the same time enabling the Corporation to provide for the orderly transfer of senior executive responsibility after these executives reach retirement age. The Plan was originally effective May 25, 1995. On December 7, 2006, the Plan was amended to limit participation to employees who became an Eligible Executive prior to January 1, 2007. On June 28, 2007, the Plan was amended: (i) to terminate the Plan effective December 31, 2007 and to provide for the distribution or forfeiture of expected benefits with respect to Eligible Executives who are Employees of the Corporation on June 28, 2007; and (ii) to permit individuals who are Participants as of September 1, 2007 to waive continuing participation in the Plan in exchange for a lump sum distribution in lieu of their expected benefits.
Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan or in any document issued under the Plan, it is intended that the Plan will at all times be exempt from the requirements of Internal Revenue Code ("Code") section 409A and any regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, and that the provisions of the Plan will be interpreted to meet such exemption. If any provision of the Plan is determined not to conform to such exemption, the Plan shall be interpreted to omit such offending provision. Nevertheless, if the Plan, or a portion of the Plan, is determined to be subject to Code section 409A, the Plan or such portion shall be interpreted in accordance with the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other guidance, including any transition rules (including but not limited to Notice 2006-79), issued thereunder.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, for the purposes of this Plan, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter indicated:
1. BENEFICIARY  The person or persons (including a trust or trusts) validly designated by a Participant, on the form provided by the Corporation, to receive the post-retirement death benefit provided under this Plan. In the absence of a valid designation, or if the designated Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, the Beneficiary shall be the person or persons entitled by will or the laws of descent and distribution to receive the amounts otherwise payable to the Participant under this Plan; a Participant may amend his or her Beneficiary designation at any time before the Participant's death.
2. BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS  The Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation.
2A. CODE  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
3. COMPENSATION COMMITTEE or COMMITTEE  The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors.
4. CORPORATION  Lockheed Martin Corporation and its subsidiaries.
5. ELIGIBLE EXECUTIVE  An officer of the Corporation who has been elected to that position by the Board of Directors prior to January 1, 2007.
6. EMPLOYEE  A person employed by the Corporation on a full-time salaried basis.
7. PARTICIPANT  A former Employee of the Corporation who at the time of Retirement was an Eligible Executive.
8. PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers, as in effect at any time and from time to time.
9. PREDECESSOR PLAN  A plan sponsored on March 14, 1995 by Martin Marietta Corporation or Lockheed Corporation providing for the payment of a death benefit upon the death of a retired executive.
10. RETIREMENT  Separation from service from the Corporation that meets the requirements of Article III.
 
Except as provided in Article X, an Employee who is an Eligible Executive at the time of his or her separation from service with the Corporation shall become a Participant in the Plan and eligible for the benefits under the Plan if the Employee satisfies all of the following requirements (or those requirements which have not been expressly waived by the Compensation Committee with respect to an Eligible Executive) at the time of his or her separation from service:
(a) the Eligible Executive's separation from service occurs on or after the Eligible Executive attains age 55;
(b) the Eligible Executive's separation from service occurs on or before February 15 of the year following the year in which the Eligible Executive attains age 65; and
(c) the separation from service is for any reason other than:
(i) involuntary termination for cause; or
(ii) to accept full time employment in a comparable position with another employer.
A separation from service with the Corporation that meets all the requirements of this Article III shall be considered Retirement from the Corporation except that separation from employment with the Corporation in order to accept employment with any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall not constitute Retirement under the terms of the Plan and shall not result in commencement of entitlement to any benefit. Any Employee who at the time of his or her separation from service does not meet all the requirements of this Article III for Retirement shall not be eligible for benefits under this Plan.
 
1. Except as provided in Article X, the Plan shall provide a benefit payable upon the death of a Participant subsequent to Retirement in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Participant's annualized base salary for the pay period immediate prior to his or her Retirement. The amount payable under this Plan shall be reduced by the amount payable under a Predecessor Plan, to the extent the benefit under the Predecessor Plan has not been waived by the Participant.
2. The coverage provided under this Plan shall commence immediately on termination of employment for Retirement and continue during the lifetime of a Participant unless sooner terminated by reason of the circumstances described in (i) the succeeding subsection, or (ii) Article X.
3. If, following the date on which a Participant becomes a Participant, the Board of Directors reasonably finds that a Participant, without the prior written consent of the Board of Directors, is engaged in the operation or management of a business, whether as owner, controlling stockholder, partner, director, officer, employee, consultant, or otherwise, which at such time is in competition with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or has disclosed to unauthorized persons information relative to the business of the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates which the Participant shall have had reason to believe is confidential, or shall be found by the Board of Directors to have committed an act during or after the term of the Participant's employment which would have justified the Participant being discharged for cause, all benefits to which such Participant shall otherwise be entitled under this Plan shall terminate. This section shall be uniformly applied to Participants similarly situated.
 
1. A written designation of Beneficiary(ies) and contingent Beneficiary(ies) may be made by the Participant in accordance with the procedures established by the Compensation Committee (or its delegates authorized in accordance with Article VIII 2). The Participant may change his or her designation from time to time by written notice made by the Participant or, if applicable, his assignee in accordance with the Compensation Committee's procedures.
2. Benefits under the Plan shall be payable to the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries properly designated by the Participant in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article V. If, at the time of the Participant's death, there is no properly designated Beneficiary as to all or any part of the benefit, or if the designated beneficiary does not survive the Participant, the benefit will be paid at the option of the Compensation Committee to any of the following survivors of the Participant: wife, husband, mother, father, child, or children; or to the executors or administrators of the Participant.
3. Payments to any named Beneficiary or Beneficiaries pursuant to any applicable law to any survivor or survivors of the Participant or to the estate of a Participant, or pursuant to a Beneficiary designation or the terms of this Plan shall completely discharge all liabilities of the Corporation with respect to the amounts so paid.
4. Plan benefits shall be paid in a lump sum unless a written request for installment payments or other arrangements pursuant to the terms of the Plan in effect on June 27, 2008 was received by the Corporation on or before such date and meets the requirements of applicable law.
5. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid by the Corporation from its general funds. This Plan constitutes a mere contractual promise by the Corporation to make payments in the future, and each Participant's (or Beneficiary's) rights shall be those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Corporation. No Participant or Beneficiary shall have any beneficial interest in any specific assets that the Corporation may hold or set aside in connection with this Plan.
 
1. Within 15 days of a change of control, in full satisfaction of all of its obligations under this Plan, the Corporation shall pay to each Participant in the Plan, a lump sum payment equal to the benefit that would be payable with respect to the Participant upon his or death. Upon payment of these amounts, the Plan shall terminate and no amount shall be payable to or on behalf of any Employee or Eligible Executive who, as of the date of the change of control, had not yet become a Participant by satisfying all the requirements of Article III. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Plan, or a portion of the Plan, is determined to be subject to Code section 409A, no distribution shall be made solely on account of a change in control under this Article VI prior to the payment date otherwise specified in the Plan unless the change in control is an event qualifying for a distribution of deferred compensation under both the definition of change in control in Section 2 of this Article VI and in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code and the Treasury regulations issued thereunder.
2. For purposes of this Plan, a change in control shall include and be deemed to occur upon the following events:
(a) A tender offer or exchange offer is consummated for the ownership of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Corporation.
(b) The Corporation is merged, combined, consolidated, recapitalized or otherwise reorganized with one or more other entities that are not Subsidiaries and, as a result of the merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization or other reorganization, less than 75% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall immediately after the event be owned in the aggregate by the stockholders of the Corporation (directly or indirectly), determined on the basis of record ownership as of the date of determination of holders entitled to vote on the action (or in the absence of a vote, the day immediately prior to the event).
(c) Any person (as this term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, but excluding any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1(b)(1) thereunder), becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Corporation representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Corporation's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Corporation.
(d) At any time within any period of two years after a tender offer, merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization, or other reorganization or a contested election, or any combination of these events, the "Incumbent Directors" shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the authorized number of members of the Board. For purposes hereof, "Incumbent Directors" shall mean the persons who were members of the Board immediately before the first of these events and the persons who were elected or nominated as their successors or pursuant to increases in the size of the Board by a vote of at least three-fourths of the Board members who were then Board members (or successors or additional members so elected or nominated).
 
(e) The stockholders of the Corporation approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution or the sale or transfer of substantially all of the Corporation's business and/or assets as an entirety to an entity that is not a Subsidiary.
3. This Article VI shall apply only to a change in control of Lockheed Martin Corporation and shall not apply to any transaction involving the Corporation's sale, liquidation, merger, or other disposition of any subsidiary.
4. The Committee may cancel or modify this Article VI at any time prior to a change in control. In the event of a change in control, this Article VI shall remain in force and effect, and shall not be subject to cancellation or modification until such time as all payments have been made in accordance with paragraph 1 of Article VI.
 
The Management Development and Compensation Committee may from time to time recommend amendments of the Plan to the Board of Directors for their review and approval. The Board of Directors may terminate the Plan or amend the Plan in any respect and at any time; provided however, that no amendment or termination shall have the effect of reducing the death benefit then being paid, or to be paid, on behalf of any Participant. Any Participant may, however, at the Participant's election, by written notice to the Compensation Committee terminate participation in the Plan.
 
1. This Plan shall be administered by the Management Development and Compensation Committee or such other committee as may be designated by the Board. The Committee shall have full authority to interpret the Plan, and interpretations of the Plan by the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties.
2. The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Corporation the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose.
3. In making any determination or in taking or not taking any action under this Plan, the Committee may obtain and rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Corporation. No member of the Committee or officer of the Corporation who is a Participant thereunder may participate in any decision specifically relating to his or her individual rights or benefits under the Plan.
4. Neither the Corporation nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under this Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application thereof, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under this Plan.
5. If a minor, person declared incompetent, or person incapable of handling the disposition of his or her property is entitled to receive a benefit, make an application, or make an election thereunder, the Committee may direct that such benefits be paid to, or such application or election be made by, the guardian, legal representative, or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent, or incapable person. Any payment made, application allowed, or election implemented in accordance with this section shall completely discharge the Corporation and the Committee from all liability with respect thereto.
6. The Committee may require proof of the death, disability, incompetence, minority, or incapacity of any Participant or Beneficiary and of the right of a person to receive any benefit or make any application or election.
7. The procedures when a claim under this Plan is denied by the Committee are as follows:
(a) The Committee shall:
(i) notify the claimant within a reasonable time of such denial, setting forth the specific reasons therefor; and
(ii) afford the claimant a reasonable opportunity for a review of the decision.
(b) The notice of such denial shall set forth, in addition to the specific reasons for the denial, the following:
(i) identification of pertinent provisions of this Plan;
 
(ii) such additional information as may be relevant to the denial of the claim; and
(iii) an explanation of the claims review procedure and advice that the claimant may request an opportunity to submit a statement of issues and comments.
(c) Within sixty days following advice of denial of a claim, upon request made by the claimant, the Committee shall take appropriate steps to review its decision in light of any further information or comments submitted by the claimant. The Committee may hold a hearing at which the claimant may present the basis of any claim for review.
(d) The Committee shall render a decision within a reasonable time (not to exceed 120 days) after the claimant's request for review and shall advise the claimant in writing of its decision, specifying the reasons and identifying the appropriate provisions of the Plan.
 
1. The maintenance of this Plan by the Corporation shall not in any way obligate the Corporation to continue the employment of an Employee or a Participant with the Corporation; nor does the Plan limit the right of the Corporation at any time and for any reason to terminate an Employee's employment. In no event shall this Plan by its terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Corporation and an Employee or a Participant.
2. By becoming a Participant thereunder, each Eligible Executive (and his or her Beneficiary) shall be deemed conclusively to have accepted and consented to all of the terms of this Plan and all actions or decisions made by the Corporation, the Board, or Committee with regard to the Plan.
3. The validity of this Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Maryland, except as to matters of Federal law. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.
 
1. . Effective December 31, 2007, the Plan shall be terminated with respect to Eligible Executives who are Employees on June 28, 2007. Except as otherwise provided in Section 1 or 4 of this Article X, the present value of the death benefit described in Section 1 of Article IV shall be paid to such Eligible Executive in a lump sum on March 14, 2008, provided that such Eligible Executive (i) is an Employee on March 14, 2008 or has terminated employment after September 1, 2007 while eligible for Retirement, and (ii) signs a waiver of participation and release of claims in the form prescribed by the Corporation. Such waiver and release must be received by the Corporation by the date the payment is made. The valuation of the lump sum benefit shall be determined in accordance with Section 3 of this Article X. If an Eligible Executive terminates employment with the Corporation between June 28, 2007 and September 1, 2007 while eligible for Retirement, no payment shall be made under this Section 1, and such Eligible Executive shall become a Participant and shall be eligible to make an election described in Section 2 of this Article X. Notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, no Eligible Executive shall become a Participant in this Plan after September 1, 2007. If an Eligible Executive terminates employment (by reason other than death or Retirement-eligibility) before the payment under this Section 1 is made, such Eligible Executive shall forfeit the payment.
Termination of Plan with Respect to Eligible Executives who are Employees on June 28, 2007
(a) An Eligible Executive described in Section 1 of this Article X shall have the opportunity to elect to defer all or a portion of the amount payable under such Section 1. Such election shall be made in the form and manner established by the Corporation in accordance with the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ("Deferral Plan") and the applicable requirements of the Code section 409A, and shall be subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Corporation, including the forfeiture of benefits described in Section 1 of this Article X. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no election to defer under this Section 1(a) shall be effective unless it is received by the Corporation by the deadline set by the Corporation's Senior Vice President, Human Resources, in accordance with the terms of the Deferral Plan and applicable legal requirements. Any election made pursuant to this Section 1(a) shall become irrevocable in accordance with the terms of the Deferral Plan.
2. . Individuals who become Participants in the Plan on or before September 1, 2007 shall have the one-time option of electing between (i) continuing to participate in the Plan as in effect on June 27, 2007 (subject to changes required by applicable law) and (ii) waiving continuing participation in the Plan in exchange for a lump sum distribution on March 14, 2008 of the present value of the death benefit described in Section 1 of Article IV. The valuation of the lump sum benefit shall be determined in accordance with Section 3 of this Article X. Payment pursuant to such an election shall be contingent on the Participant's signing a waiver of participation and release of claims in the form prescribed by the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no election under this Section 2 shall be effective unless it is received by the Corporation by the deadline set by the Corporation's Senior Vice President, Human Resources, in accordance with applicable legal requirements. A Participant who does not elect by such deadline to receive his or her benefit in lump sum in accordance with this Section 2 and sign the waiver and release by such date shall remain a Participant in this Plan. Any election made pursuant to this Section 2 shall become irrevocable if not revoked by the Participant on the deadline set forth in the election in accordance with this Section 2.
Election to Waive Participation for Individuals who become Participants by September 1, 2007
 
3. . The present value of the death benefit to be distributed in accordance with this Article X shall be determined as of March 14, 2008 in accordance with the following assumptions:
Valuation of Lump Sum Benefit
(a) The death benefit payable under Section 1 of this Article X for Eligible Executives who are Employees on March 14, 2008 shall be calculated based on a base salary assuming (i) continued employment to age 65, and (ii) annual salary increases based on such Eligible Executive's projected salary increases, as approved by the Board (or actual base salary in the case of an Eligible Executive who is entitled to a benefit under Section 1 or 4 on account of death or Retirement-eligibility).
(b) The present value of the death benefit payable under Sections 1 and 2 of this Article X shall be based on the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality table (GAM 83) and the discount rate used by the Corporation as of December 31, 2006 for the purpose of reporting its pension benefit obligation in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 87.
4. Except as provided in Section 1(a) of this Article X and the Deferral Plan, if an Eligible Executive who is an Employee dies before his benefit is paid pursuant to this Article X, his expected benefit shall be paid in accordance with Sections 2 and 3 of Article V in a lump sum calculated in accordance with Section 3 of this Article X. If a Participant dies after making an election in accordance with Section 2 of this Article X to receive a lump sum distribution of his benefit, but before the date on which the benefit is paid, his benefit shall be paid in accordance with Sections 2 and 3 of Article V in a lump sum calculated in accordance with Section 3 of this Article X. Such payments shall be made on March 14, 2008 or on the date specified in the Deferral Plan, as applicable.
5. Any payment made to an Eligible Executive or Participant under this Article X shall extinguish the Corporation's obligations under this Plan to such Eligible Executive or Participant. Once all benefits, if any, are paid in full to all Eligible Executives described in Section 1 of this Article X and to all Participants (whether pursuant Section 2 of this Article X or pursuant to the terms of the Plan in effect on June 27, 2007), the Plan shall be deemed terminated.
6. Subject to paragraph 2 of Article I, the provisions of this Article X shall supersede any inconsistent provisions of the Plan.
 
This Plan has been amended and restated effective as of the date stated on the first page herein.
 

Exhibit 99.2
The purposes of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Deferral Plan") are to provide certain key management employees of Lockheed Martin Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") the opportunity to defer receipt of (i) Incentive Compensation awards under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "MICP"); (ii) Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan (the "Omnibus Plan") and the Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the "IPA Plan"); and (iii) certain benefits payable under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers ("Death Benefit Plan"). Providing this opportunity to defer income under the Deferral Plan will encourage key employees to maintain a financial interest in the Company's performance. Except as expressly provided hereinafter, the provisions of this Deferral Plan and the MICP, the Omnibus Plan, the IPA Plan, and the Death Benefit Plan shall be construed and applied independently of each other.
The Deferral Plan applies solely to MICP awards, Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan, and certain payments under the Death Benefit Plan, and expressly does not apply to any special awards which may be made under any of the Company's other incentive plans, except and to the extent specifically provided under the terms of such other incentive plans and the relevant awards.
The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, in order to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A. The 2005 amendment and restatement of the Deferral Plan applied only to the portion of a Participant's Account Balance that is earned or becomes vested on or after January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion). The portion of a Participant's Account Balance that was earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion) shall be governed by the terms of the Deferral Plan in effect on December 31, 2004, which is attached hereto as Appendix A. The Deferral Plan is hereby amended and restated, effective January 1, 2007, to permit eligible executives of the Company to defer payments that are available to them pursuant to the partial termination of the Death Benefit Plan.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter indicated:
1. ACCOUNT  The bookkeeping account maintained by the Company for each Participant which is credited with the Participant's Deferred Compensation and earnings (or losses) attributable to the investment options selected by the Participant, and which is debited to reflect distributions and forfeitures; the portions of a Participant's Account allocated to different investment options and the portions attributable to the deferral of Incentive Compensation awards, Long Term Incentive Award payments, and Death Benefit payments will be accounted for separately.
2. ACCOUNT BALANCE  The total amount credited to a Participant's Account at any point in time, including the portions of the Account allocated to each investment option.
3. AWARD YEAR  As to Incentive Compensation, the calendar year with respect to which an Eligible Employee is awarded Incentive Compensation; as to a Long Term Incentive Award payment and the related Company Deferral, the first calendar year in the Performance Period for which the Long Term Incentive Award is effective with respect to an Eligible Employee.
4. BENEFICIARY  The person or persons (including a trust or trusts) validly designated by a Participant, on the form provided by the Company, to receive distributions of the Participant's Account Balance, if any, upon the Participant's death. In the absence of a valid designation, or if the designated Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the personal representative of the Participant's estate in the event of a Participant's death. A Participant may amend his or her Beneficiary designation at any time before the Participant's death.
5. BOARD  The Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation.
6. CODE  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including the regulations and guidance of general applicability thereunder.
7. COMMITTEE  The committee described in Section 1 of Article VIII.
8. COMMON STOCK  The $1.00 par value common stock of the Company.
9. COMPANY  Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
10. COMPANY DEFERRALS  The amount deferred by the Company, and not at the election of the Participant, for the two-year period following the end of a Performance Period for a Long Term Incentive Award.
 
11. COMPANY STOCK INVESTMENT OPTION  The investment option under which the amount credited to a Participant's Account will be based on the market value and investment return of the Company's Common Stock.
11A. DEATH BENEFIT  The amount payable to an Eligible Employee pursuant to Article X, Section 1 of the Death Benefit Plan.
11B. DEATH BENEFIT PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers.
12. DEFERRAL AGREEMENT  The written agreement executed by an Eligible Employee on the form provided by the Company under which the Eligible Employee elects to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year, a Long Term Incentive Award and any related Company Deferral for an Award Year, or a Death Benefit payable pursuant to the Death Benefit Plan.
13. DEFERRAL PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995, and as amended from time to time.
14. DEFERRED COMPENSATION  The amount of Incentive Compensation credited to a Participant's Account under the Deferral Plan, the amount of any Long Term Incentive Award payment credited to a Participant's Account under the Deferral Plan (other than Company Deferrals), and the amount of the Death Benefit payment credited to a Participant's Account under the Deferral Plan.
15. ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE  An employee of the Company who is a participant in the MICP, who receives a Long Term Incentive Award under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan, who is eligible to receive a Death Benefit under the Death Benefit Plan, and who has satisfied such additional requirements for participation in this Deferral Plan as the Committee may from time to time establish. In the exercise of its authority under this provision, the Committee shall limit participation in the Plan to employees whom the Committee believes to be a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
16. EXCHANGE ACT  The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
17. INCENTIVE COMPENSATION  The MICP amount granted to an employee for an Award Year.
18. IPA PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan.
19. INTEREST OPTION  The investment option under which earnings will be credited to a Participant's Account based on the interest rate applicable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation.
 
20. LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARD  A long term incentive performance award granted to an employee under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan.
21. MICP  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan or the 2006 Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (for incentive compensation awarded after February 1, 2006).
22. OMNIBUS PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan.
23. PARTICIPANT  An Eligible Employee for whom Incentive Compensation, a Long Term Incentive Award payment, or a Death Benefit payment has been deferred for one or more years under this Deferral Plan; the term shall include a former employee whose Deferred Compensation has not been fully distributed.
24. PAYMENT DATE  As to any Participant, the January 15 or July 15 on or about on which payment to the Participant is to be made or to begin in accordance with Article V.
25. PERFORMANCE PERIOD  The period set forth in a Long Term Incentive Award over which the Company's performance is measured by reference to total stockholder return to determine whether any payment will be made under such Long Term Incentive Award.
26. SECTION 16 PERSON  A Participant who is subject to the reporting and short-swing liability provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on the date a Deferral Agreement or other election form is delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Deferral Plan.
27. SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE  A Participant who is reasonably determined to a be a "specified employee" within the meaning of Code section 409A(2)(B)(i) as of December 31 of a calendar year and who shall be treated as such for the 12-month period beginning the next April 1 and for twelve calendar months thereafter.
28. SUBSIDIARY  As to any person, any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporation), is owned or controlled (directly or indirectly) by that entity, or by one or more of the Subsidiaries of that entity, or by a combination thereof.
29. TRADING DAY  A day upon which transactions with respect to Company Common Stock are reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system.
 
1. .
Timing of Deferral Elections
(a) . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than June 30 of the Award Year.
Incentive Compensation
(b) . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer the payment of a Long Term Incentive Award and a Company Deferral for an Award Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement as of a date specified by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, which shall be no later than six months prior to the end of the Performance Period.
Long Term Incentive Awards and Company Deferrals
(c) . No Eligible Employee shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement after the applicable deadline described in Section 1(a), Section 1(b), or Section 1(d) of this Article III for delivering a Deferral Agreement to the Company, provided no Section 16 Person shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement after such applicable deadline or, if earlier, after the date the agreement has been delivered to the Company. The Senior Vice President, Human Resources may establish policies and procedures to determine when a Deferral Agreement or other election called for under this Plan has been delivered to the Company. Each Deferral Agreement that relates to an Award Year shall apply only to amounts deferred in that Award Year, and a separate Deferral Agreement must be completed for each Award Year for which an Eligible Employee defers Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award. A Deferral Agreement relating to a Death Benefit payment shall relate only to such Death Benefit payment.
Irrevocability of Elections
(d) . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer a Death Benefit payable under the Death Benefit Plan by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than the date specified by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources in accordance with Code section 409A.
Death Benefit
2. . An Eligible Employee's deferral election may be stated as:
Amount of Deferral Elections
(a) a dollar amount which is at least $5,000 and is an even multiple of $1,000;
(b) the greater of $5,000 or a designated percentage of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment;
 
(c) the excess of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment over a dollar amount specified by the Eligible Employee; or
(d) all of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment.
In the case of a deferral election under paragraph (c) of this Section 2, an Eligible Employee's deferral election shall be effective only if the resulting excess amount is at least $5,000.
3. . The amount that would otherwise be deferred and credited to an Eligible Employee's Account will be reduced by the amount of any tax that the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Deferred Compensation. The reduction for taxes shall be made proportionately out of amounts otherwise allocable to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option.
Effect of Taxes on Deferred Compensation
4. . In the case of an Eligible Employee who receives more than one Long Term Incentive Award with respect to the same Performance Period, the elections made by the Eligible Employee under this Article III as well as under Articles V and VI for the first Long Term Incentive Award granted to the Eligible Employee with respect to a Performance Period shall be deemed to be the elections made by that Eligible Employee for any other Long Term Incentive Awards granted to that Eligible Employee with respect to that same Performance Period.
Multiple Awards
5. . Pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Awards, 50% of the amount payable at the end of the Performance Period will be automatically deferred until the second anniversary of the last day of the Performance Period with respect to a particular award. The Company may establish an account for Company Deferrals under the Company Stock Investment Option of this Deferral Plan. However, the terms governing the Company Deferrals will be governed for the two year period of deferral by the terms of the award agreement entered into under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan with respect to the Long Term Incentive Award and not by this Deferral Plan except to the extent the award agreement expressly refers to the terms of this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant elects to defer the Company Deferrals beyond the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period, the deferrals will be treated as made under this Deferral Plan for the period following the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period.
Company Deferrals
1. . Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment, that a Participant has elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Account as of the Trading Day set by action of the Committee or, if the Committee does not act to set such a day, on the second Trading Day which follows the date of approval of the related Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment (other than Company Deferrals). A Death Benefit payment that a Participant
Crediting of Deferred Compensation
 
has elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Account as of the date on which the amount of the Death Benefit payment was determined and paid to eligible employees absent any election to defer. If the Company establishes an account for Company Deferrals pursuant to Section 5 of Article III, the Company Deferrals shall be credited to such account as of the last Trading Day in the Performance Period. Any Deferred Compensation credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Interest Option shall be credited at the dollar amount of such credits, and any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited as if the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the applicable Trading Day described in this Section 1.
1. Crediting of Earnings.
(a) General Rules.
(i) Earnings shall be credited to a Participant's Account based on the investment option or options to which the Account has been allocated beginning with the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV.
(ii) Any amount distributed from a Participant's Account pursuant to Article V shall be credited with earnings through the last Trading Day of the month preceding the month in which a distribution is to be made on a Payment Date pursuant to Article V to the extent distributed from the portion of a Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option and shall (subject to Section 2(d) of this Article IV) be credited with earnings through the last day of the month preceding the month in which a distribution is to be made on a Payment Date pursuant to Article V to the extent distributed from the portion of a Participant's Account allocated to the Interest Option.
(iii) Company Deferrals shall be credited with earnings through the last Trading Day in the period which ends on the second anniversary of the end of the applicable Performance Period unless deferred further pursuant to a Deferral Agreement.
(b) . The portion of a Participant's Account allocated or reallocated to the Interest Option shall be credited with interest, compounded monthly, while so allocated or reallocated at a rate equivalent to the then published rate for computing the present value of future benefits at the time cost is assignable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on a semi-annual basis pursuant to Pub. L. 92-41, 85 Stat. 97.
Interest Option
(c) .
Company Stock Investment Option
(i) The portion of a Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited when so allocated on the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV as if such amount had been invested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on such Trading Day.
 
(ii) The portion of the Participant's Account Balance allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall reflect any post-allocation appreciation or depreciation in the market value of the Company's Common Stock based on the published closing price of the stock on the last Trading Day of each month and shall reflect dividends paid and any other distributions made with respect to the Company's Common Stock.
(iii) Cash dividends shall be treated as if such dividends had been reinvested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the cash dividend is paid or, if the dividend is paid on a day which is not a Trading Day, on the Trading Day which immediately precedes the day the dividend is paid.
(d) . If any part of a Participant's Account is allocated to the Interest Option as of a Payment Date and payment does not commence by the last day of the month in which the Payment Date occurs, earnings shall be credited on such part of the Participant's Account from the last day of the month preceding the Payment Date to the last day of the month preceding the month the late payment actually is made at the rate set forth under Section 2(b) of this Article IV. All the interest credited under this Section 2(d) of this Article IV with respect to a late payment shall be paid on the date the late payment is first made.
Interest Crediting For Late Payments From Interest Option
2. . A Participant's investment elections for a particular type of award for an Award Year or a Death Benefit shall be made in his or her Deferral Agreement for such Award Year or Death Benefit, and no Participant shall have the right to modify or revoke any such election after the time the Participant no longer has the right to make or revoke a Deferral Agreement under Section 1 of Article II. A Participant's allocations between investment options shall be subject to such minimum allocations as the Committee may establish. In the event a Participant fails to specify an investment election in his or her Deferral Agreement, the amount subject to that Deferral Agreement shall be deemed allocated to the Interest Option.
Election of Investment Options
1. .
General
(a) . The Company's liability to pay benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary under this Deferral Plan shall be measured by and shall in no event exceed the Participant's Account Balance. Except as otherwise provided in this Deferral Plan (including but not limited to Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals), a Participant's Account Balance shall be paid to him in accordance with the Participant's elections under this Article V.
Account Balance and Elections
 
(b) . All benefit payments shall be made in cash to the extent a Participant's Account is allocated to the Interest Option or is attributable to Company Deferrals and shall be made in whole shares of the Company's Common Stock to the extent that a Participant's Account is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option (other than with respect to Company Deferrals) and, except as otherwise provided, shall reduce allocations to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant's Account Balance is allocated between those investment options at the end of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this Deferral Plan unless such amount was allocated to the Participant's Account in accordance with Section 1 of Article IV at least six months prior to the date of distribution. At the Company's discretion a distribution of Common Stock may be made directly to a Participant or to a brokerage account opened in the name of the Participant. When an Account is distributed in a lump sum or, if an Account is distributed in installments, cash shall be distributed at that time in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock. The cash distribution in lieu of fractional shares shall be based on the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the month preceding the date the distribution is scheduled to be made.
Cash and Stock Payments
2. . At the time a Participant completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect from among the following options governing the date on which the payment of benefits shall commence:
Election for Commencement of Payment
(a) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for any reason.
(b) Payment to begin on the first Payment Date of the year next following the year in which the Participant terminates employment with the Company for any reason.
(c) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date on which the Participant has both terminated employment with the Company for any reason and attained the age designated by the Participant in the Deferral Agreement.
Notwithstanding a Participant's election or any other provision of the Deferral Plan, the following specific rules apply to Participants who are Section 16 Persons or Specified Employees. Any payment of benefits in the form of shares of Common Stock that would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section
 
16(b) of the Exchange Act. Any distributions to a Specified Employee on account of a termination of employment shall commence on the Payment Date determined pursuant to the Specified Employee's election (or as otherwise provided under this Deferral Plan), except that if such Payment Date would be within six (6) months of the date of the Specified Employee's termination of employment from the Company, commencement or distribution of benefits shall be made or commence on the next Payment Date that is at least six (6) months following such termination of employment.
3. . At the time a Participant completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect the form of payment of his or her Deferred Compensation for the specified Award Year or Death Benefit, as applicable, from among the following options:
Election for Form of Payment
(a) A lump sum.
(b) Annual installment payments for a period of years designated by the Participant, which shall not exceed fifteen (15) annual installments. The amount of each annual payment shall be determined by dividing the Participant's Account Balance at the end of the month prior to such payment by the number of installment payments then remaining in the designated installment period.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Account Balance of a Participant who is entitled to begin payment equals $10,000 or less, the Participant's Account Balance shall be paid in a single lump sum payment as soon as administratively practicable in full discharge of all liabilities with respect to such benefits.
4. .
Prospective Change of Payment Elections
(a) If a Participant has different payment options in effect with respect to his or her Account Balance, the Company shall maintain sub-accounts for the Participant to determine the amounts subject to each payment election.
(b) In the event a Participant does not make a valid election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of benefit for an Award Year or for a Death Benefit, the Participant will be deemed to have elected that payment of benefits with respect to that Award Year or Death Benefit be made in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment.
(c) A Participant's election with respect to an Award Year or Death Benefit (including a "deemed election" in accordance with the preceding paragraph) shall remain in effect unless and until such election is modified by a subsequent election in accordance with (d) below.
(d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article V, a Participant may make a new election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of payment with respect to any sub-account maintained for Award Years or a Death Benefit or with respect to his or her entire Account
 
Balance. A new election under this section shall be made by executing and delivering to the Company an election in such form as prescribed by the Company. To constitute a valid election by a Participant making a prospective change to a previous election, (i) the prospective election must be executed and delivered to the Company at least twelve (12) months before the date the first payment would be due under the Participant's previous election, and (ii) the first payment must be delayed by at least sixty (60) months from the date the first payment would be due under the Participant's previous election, and (iii) such change in election shall not be given effect until twelve 12 months from the date that the change in election is delivered to the Company. In the event an election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in this paragraph, such election shall be void and, if such an election is void, payment shall be made in accordance with the most recent election which was valid.
(e) Notwithstanding the above, for periods prior to January 1, 2007, (or such later date as may be provided by the Internal Revenue Service in guidance of general applicability), the Senior Vice President, Human Resources may provide alternative rules for elections with respect to the commencement of payment and form of payment that conform to the rules provided in Notice 2005-1, and subsequent Internal Revenue Service guidance providing transition relief under Code section 409A.
(f) A Participant may not make or modify an election with respect to commencement of payment or form of payment after the date a Participant terminates employment.
5. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, if the Participant terminates employment with the Company, other than by reason of death or disability (as defined in Section 8(b) of this Article V), and before the Participant has attained age 55, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Participant's Account Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company. Distributions under this Section 5 are limited by Section 1 of Article VIII, by any delay in distribution required for Specified Employees as provided in Section 2 of this Article V and, further, by any delay in distribution required to avoid liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, as provided in Section 2 of this Article V.
Acceleration upon Early Termination
6. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, if following a Participant's termination of employment with the Company, the Participant takes a position (or accepts a position) with a governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality and that employer has determined that the Participant's continued participation in the Plan may constitute a conflict of interest precluding the Participant from continuing in his position (or from accepting an offered position) with that employer or subjecting the Participant to penalty, sanction, or otherwise limiting the Participant's responsibilities for that employer, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to
Acceleration Upon Conflict of Interest
 
Company Deferrals, then the Participant's Account Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum as soon as practical following the later of (i) the date on which the Participant commences employment with the government employer; or (ii) the date on which it is determined or indicated that the conflict of interest may exist. This Section 6 of Article V shall apply, however, only to the extent that the accelerated payment upon a conflict-of-interest determination conforms with Code section 409A.
7. . Upon the death of a Participant before a complete distribution of his or her Account Balance, the Account Balance will be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary in accordance with the payment elections applicable to the Participant. If a Participant dies while actively employed or otherwise before the payment of benefits has commenced, payments to the Beneficiary shall commence on the date payments to the Participant would have commenced, taking account of the Participant's termination of employment (by death or before) and, if applicable, by postponing commencement until after the date the Participant would have attained the commencement age specified by the Participant. Whether the Participant dies before or after the commencement of distributions, payments to the Beneficiary shall be made for the period or remaining period elected by the Participant.
Benefits Payable Upon Death
8. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, a Participant or Beneficiary may request an earlier distribution in the following limited circumstances (except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals):
Early Distributions in Special Circumstances
(a) . A Participant may apply for a hardship distribution pursuant to this Section 8(a) on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall prescribe and, subject to the last sentence of this Section 8(a) with respect to Section 16 Persons, the Committee shall have the power and discretion at any time to approve a payment to a Participant if the Committee determines that the Participant is suffering from an unforeseeable serious financial emergency caused by circumstances beyond the Participant's control which would cause a hardship to the Participant unless such payment were made. Any such hardship payment will be in a lump sum and will not exceed the lesser of (i) the amount necessary to satisfy the financial emergency (taking account of the income tax liability associated with the distribution), or (ii) the Participant's Account Balance; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(a) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. The Committee's determination under this Section 8(a) shall conform to the requirements of Code section 409A(a).
Hardship Distributions
(b) . If the Committee determines that a Participant has become permanently disabled within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code before the Participant's entire Account Balance has been distributed, the
Disability
 
Participant's remaining Account Balance will be distributed in a lump sum payment; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(b) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
9. .
Acceleration upon Change in Control
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Deferral Plan, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Account Balance of each Participant shall be distributed in a single lump sum within fifteen (15) calendar days following a "Change in Control."
(b) For purposes of this Deferral Plan, a Change in Control shall include and be deemed to occur upon the following events:
(i) A tender offer or exchange offer is consummated for the ownership of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.
(ii) The Company is merged, combined, consolidated, recapitalized or otherwise reorganized with one or more other entities that are not Subsidiaries and, as a result of the merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization or other reorganization, less than 75% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall immediately after the event be owned in the aggregate by the stockholders of the Company (directly or indirectly), determined on the basis of record ownership as of the date of determination of holders entitled to vote on the action (or in the absence of a vote, the day immediately prior to the event).
(iii) Any person (as this term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1 (b)(1) thereunder), becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.
(iv) At any time within any period of two years after a tender offer, merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization, or other reorganization or a contested election, or any combination of these events,
 
the "Incumbent Directors" shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the authorized number of members of the Board. For purposes hereof, "Incumbent Directors" shall mean the persons who were members of the Board immediately before the first of these events and the persons who were elected or nominated as their successors or pursuant to increases in the size of the Board by a vote of at least three-fourths of the Board members who were then Board members (or successors or additional members so elected or nominated).
(v) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution or the sale or transfer of substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets as an entirety to an entity that is not a Subsidiary.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no distribution shall be made solely on account of a Change in Control and prior to the benefit commencement date specified in Section 2 of Article V unless the Change in Control is an event qualifying for a distribution of deferred compensation under both the definition of Change in Control in this Plan and in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(a), if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(a) would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to any Section 16 Person, then the date of distribution to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
(d) This Section 9 shall apply only to a Change in Control of Lockheed Martin Corporation and shall not cause immediate payout of Deferred Compensation in any transaction involving the Company's sale, liquidation, merger, or other disposition of any subsidiary.
(e) The Committee may cancel or modify this Section 9 at any time prior to a Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control, this Section 9 shall remain in force and effect, and shall not be subject to cancellation or modification for a period of five years, and any defined term used in Section 9 shall not, for purposes of Section 9, be subject to cancellation or modification during the five-year period.
10. . Subject to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VIII, in the event that the payment of benefits in accordance with the Participant's elections under this Article V would prevent the Company from claiming an income tax deduction with respect to any portion of the benefits paid, the Committee shall have the right to modify the timing of distributions from the Participant's Account as necessary to maximize the Company's tax deductions. In the exercise of its discretion to adopt a modified distribution schedule, the Committee shall undertake to have distributions made at such times and in such
Deductibility of Payments
 
amounts as most closely approximate the Participant's elections, consistent with the objective of maximum deductibility for the Company. The Committee shall have no authority to reduce a Participant's Account Balance or to pay aggregate benefits less than the Participant's Account Balance in the event that all or a portion thereof would not be deductible by the Company.
11. . Subject to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VIII, notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if the Committee determines in good faith, based on consultation with counsel, that the Federal income tax treatment or legal status of the Plan has or may be adversely affected by a change in the Code, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or other applicable law or by an administrative or judicial construction thereof, the Committee may direct that the Accounts of affected Participants or of all Participants be distributed as soon as practicable after such determination is made, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee to cure or mitigate the consequences, or possible consequences of, such change in law or interpretation thereof.
Change of Law
12. . To the extent required by law, the Company shall withhold from benefit payments hereunder, or with respect to any Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award, or Death Benefit payment deferred hereunder or credit contributed by the Company under Article IV, any Federal, state, or local income or payroll taxes required to be withheld and shall furnish the recipient and the applicable government agency or agencies with such reports, statements, or information as may be legally required.
Tax Withholding
1. . This Deferral Plan constitutes a mere contractual promise by the Company to make payments in the future, and each Participant's rights shall be those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. No Participant shall have any beneficial interest in any specific assets that the Company may hold or set aside in connection with this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to assist the Company in meeting its obligations under this Deferral Plan, the Company may set aside assets in a trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64, 1992-2 C.B. 422, and the Company may direct that its obligations under this Deferral Plan be satisfied by payments out of such trust. The assets of any such trust will remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. It is the Company's intention that the Deferral Plan be unfunded for Federal income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Unfunded Status of Plan
2. . A Participant's rights under this Plan shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Plan, or any interest therein shall not be permitted or recognized, other than the designation of, or passage of payment rights to, a Beneficiary. Notwithstanding, any portion of a Participant's benefit under this Plan may be paid to a spouse or former spouse pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order (as defined in Code section 414(p)(1)(B)), provided that the form of payment designated in such order is one that is provided for under Section 3 of Article V of this Deferral Plan.
Nonalienability of Benefits
 
1. . The Board may amend, modify, suspend or discontinue this Deferral Plan at any time subject to any shareholder approval that may be required under applicable law, provided, however, that no such amendment shall have the effect of reducing a Participant's Account Balance or postponing the time when a Participant is entitled to receive a distribution of his Account Balance. Further, no amendment may alter the formula for crediting interest to Participants' Accounts with respect to amounts for which deferral elections have previously been made, unless the amended formula is not less favorable to Participants than that previously in effect, or unless each affected Participant consents to such change.
Amendment
2. . The Board reserves the right to terminate this Plan at any time and to pay all Participants their Account Balances in any form and at such times that the Board reasonably determines in its discretion is appropriate and conforms to the requirements of Code section 409A; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Termination
3. . The Board reserves the right to transfer to another entity all of the obligations of Company with respect to a Participant under this Plan if such entity agrees pursuant to a binding written agreement to assume all of the obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to such Participant.
Transfer of Liability
1. . This Deferral Plan shall be administered by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board and constituted so as to permit this Deferral Plan to comply with the disinterested administration requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act. The members of the Committee shall be designated by the Board. A majority of the members of the Committee (but not fewer than two) shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of a quorum or the unanimous written consent of the Committee shall constitute action by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to interpret the Plan, and interpretations of the Plan by the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Deferral Plan or in any document issued under the Deferral Plan, it is intended that the Deferral Plan will at all times conform to the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, and that the provisions of the Deferral Plan will be interpreted to meet such requirements. If any provision of the Deferral Plan is determined not to conform to such requirements, the Deferral Plan shall be interpreted to omit such offending provision.
The Committee
 
2. . The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Deferral Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose, except that the Committee may not delegate any authority the delegation of which would cause this Deferral Plan to fail to satisfy the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3. In making any determination or in taking or not taking any action under this Deferral Plan, the Committee may obtain and rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Company. No member of the Committee or officer of the Company who is a Participant hereunder may participate in any decision specifically relating to his or her individual rights or benefits under the Deferral Plan.
Delegation and Reliance
3. . Neither the Company nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under this Deferral Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application thereof, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under this Deferral Plan or for the failure of the Deferral Plan or any Participant's rights under the Deferral Plan to achieve intended tax consequences, to qualify for exemption or relief under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, or to comply with any other law, compliance with which is not required on the part of the Company.
Exculpation and Indemnity
4. . If a minor, person declared incompetent, or person incapable of handling the disposition of his or her property is entitled to receive a benefit, make an application, or make an election hereunder, the Committee may direct that such benefits be paid to, or such application or election be made by, the guardian, legal representative, or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent, or incapable person. Any payment made, application allowed, or election implemented in accordance with this Section shall completely discharge the Company and the Committee from all liability with respect thereto.
Facility of Payment
5. . The Committee may require proof of the death, disability, incompetency, minority, or incapacity of any Participant or Beneficiary and of the right of a person to receive any benefit or make any application or election.
Proof of Claims
6. . The procedures when a claim under this Deferral Plan is wholly or partially denied by the Committee or its delegate, as applicable (the "Claims Administrator") are as follows:
Claim Procedures
(a) The Claims Administrator shall, within 90 days after receipt of a claim, furnish to claimant a written notice setting forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by claimant: (1) the specific reason or reasons for the denial; (2) specific reference to pertinent Deferral Plan provisions on which the denial is based; (3) a description of any additional materials or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; (4) an explanation of the steps to be taken if the claimant
 
wishes to have the denial reviewed; and (5) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on review. The 90 day period may be extended for not more than an additional 90 days if special circumstances make such an extension necessary. The Claims Administrator shall give the claimant, before the end of the initial 90 day period, a written notice of such extension, stating such special circumstances and the date by which the Claims Administrator expects to render a decision.
(b) By a written application filed with the Claims Administrator within 60 days after receipt by claimant of the written notice described in paragraph (a), the claimant or his duly authorized representative may request review of the denial of his claim.
(c) In connection with such review, the claimant or his duly authorized representative may submit issues, comments, documents, records and other information relating to the claim for benefits to the Claims Administrator. In addition, the claimant will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, or other information "relevant" to claimant's claim for benefits. A document, record, or other information is "relevant" if it: (1) was relied upon in making the benefit determination; (2) was submitted, considered or generated in the course of making the benefit determination, without regard to whether such document, record or information was relied upon in making the benefit determination; or (3) demonstrates compliance with administrative processes and safeguards required under Federal law.
(d) The Deferral Plan will provide an impartial review that takes into account all comments, records and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The Claims Administrator shall make a decision and furnish such decision in writing to the claimant within 60 days after receipt by the Claims Administrator of the request for review. This period may be extended to not more than 120 days after such receipt if special circumstances make such an extension necessary. The claimant will be notified in writing prior to the expiration of the original 60 day period if such an extension is required, and such notice will include the reason for the extension and the date by which it is expected that a decision will be reached. The decision on review shall be in writing, set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include: (1) the specific reasons for the decision; (2) specific reference to the pertinent Deferral Plan provisions on which the decision is based; (3) a statement that the claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information "relevant" to the claimant's claim for benefits; (4) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; (5) a statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures and the claimant's right to obtain information about such procedures, if any; and (6) a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an
 
adverse benefit determination on review. If in the event that the reviewing committee must make a determination of disability in order to decide a claim, the reviewing committee shall follow the special claims procedures for disability benefits described in Department of Labor Regulation section 2560.503-1(d). The reviewing committee shall render a decision within a reasonable time (not to exceed 90 days) after the claimant's request for review, rather than within 120 days as set forth in the above paragraph.
1. . Neither this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral nor a Participant's Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, shall in any way obligate the Company to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, nor does either this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement limit the right of the Company at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant's employment. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company and a Participant. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications in any way obligate the Company to award Incentive Compensation, grant any award under the Omnibus Plan or IPA Plan, pay any Death Benefit, or make any Long Term Incentive Award payment to any Eligible Employee for any Award Year, whether or not the Eligible Employee is a Participant in the Deferral Plan for that Award Year, nor in any other way limit the right of the Company to change an Eligible Employee's compensation or other benefits.
No Guarantee of Employment or Award
2. . Any written notice to the Company referred to herein shall be made by mailing or delivering such notice to the Company at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, to the attention of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Any written notice to a Participant shall be made by delivery to the Participant in person, through electronic transmission, or by mailing such notice to the Participant at his or her last-known place of residence or business address.
Notice
3. . In the event it should become impossible for the Company or the Committee to perform any act required by this Deferral Plan, the Company or the Committee may perform such other act as it in good faith determines will most nearly carry out the intent and the purpose of this Deferral Plan.
Performance of Acts
4. . By electing to become a Participant hereunder, each Eligible Employee shall be deemed conclusively to have accepted and consented to all of the terms of this Deferral Plan.
Employee Consent
5. . The provisions of this Deferral Plan and the Deferral Agreements hereunder shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors, and its assigns, and to the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives.
Terms Binding
 
6. . A copy of this Deferral Plan shall be available for inspection by Participants or other persons entitled to benefits under the Deferral Plan at reasonable times at the offices of the Company.
Copy of Plan
7. . The validity of this Deferral Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Maryland, except as to matters of Federal law. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.
State Law
8. . This Deferral Plan and its operation, including but not limited to, the mechanics of deferral elections, the issuance of securities, if any, or the payment of cash hereunder is subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws) and such other approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be necessary or advisable in connection therewith.
Regulatory Requirements
9. . It is the intent of the Company that this Deferral Plan satisfy and be interpreted in a manner, that, in the case of Participants who are or may be Section 16 Persons, satisfies any applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or other exemptive rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not subject Section 16 Persons to short-swing profit liability thereunder. If any provision of this Deferral Plan would otherwise frustrate or conflict with the intent expressed in this Section 9, that provision to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict. To the extent of any remaining irreconcilable conflict with this intent, the provision shall be deemed disregarded. Similarly, any action or election by a Section 16 Person with respect to the Deferral Plan to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid liability under Section 16 or, if this is not possible, to the extent necessary to avoid liability under Section 16, shall be deemed ineffective. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Deferral Plan, the provisions of this Deferral Plan may at any time be bifurcated by the Board or the Committee in any manner so that certain provisions of this Deferral Plan are applicable solely to Section 16 Persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan to the contrary, if a distribution which would otherwise occur is prohibited or proposed to be delayed because of the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or the provisions of the Deferral Plan designed to ensure compliance with Section 16, the Section 16 Person involved may affirmatively elect in writing to have the distribution occur in any event; provided that the Section 16 Person shall concurrently enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Committee in its sole discretion for the satisfaction of any and all liabilities, costs and expenses arising from this election.
Section 16 of Exchange Act
10. . This Deferral Plan, allocations to and from the Company Stock Investment Option and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or property or the payment of cash under this Deferral Plan, are subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state
Securities Laws
 
and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws and Federal margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company be necessary or advisable to comply with all legal requirements. Any securities delivered under this Deferral Plan shall be subject to such restrictions (and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company provide such evidence, assurance and representations to the Company as to compliance with any thereof) as counsel to the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements.
11. . Whenever a signature notice or delivery of a document is required or appropriate under this Deferral Plan, signature, notice or delivery may be accomplished by paper or written format or, to the extent authorized by the Committee, by electronic means. In the event the Committee authorizes electronic means for the signature, notice or delivery of a document under this Deferral Plan, the electronic record or confirmation of that signature, notice or delivery maintained by or on behalf of the Committee shall for purposes of this Deferral Plan be treated as if it was a written signature or notice and was delivered in the manner provided herein for a written document.
Electronic Notice and Signatures
 
This Deferral Plan was originally adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995 and became effective upon adoption to awards of Incentive Compensation for the Company's fiscal year ending December 31, 1995 and subsequent fiscal years. Subsequent amendments to the Deferral Plan are effective as of the date stated in the amendment or the adopting resolution.
This Deferral Plan has been amended and restated effective as of the date stated on the first page herein.
This Appendix A shall govern the portion of a Participant's Account Balance that was earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion). This Appendix A shall not apply to the portion of a Participant's Account Balance that is earned or becomes vested on or after January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion).
The purposes of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "Deferral Plan') are to provide certain key management employees of Lockheed Martin Corporation and its subsidiaries (the "Company") the opportunity to defer receipt of (i) Incentive Compensation awards under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the "MICP") and (ii) Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan (the "Omnibus Plan") and the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the "IPA Plan"). Providing this opportunity to defer income under the Deferral Plan will encourage key employees to maintain a financial interest in the Company's performance. Except as expressly provided hereinafter, the provisions of this Deferral Plan and the MICP, the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan shall be construed and applied independently of each other.
The Deferral Plan applies solely to MICP awards and Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan and expressly does not apply to any special awards which may be made under any of the Company's other incentive plans, except and to the extent specifically provided under the terms of such other incentive plans and the relevant awards.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter indicated:
1. ACCOUNT  The bookkeeping account maintained by the Company for each Participant which is credited with the Participant's Deferred Compensation and earnings (or losses) attributable to the investment options selected by the Participant, and which is debited to reflect distributions and forfeitures; the portions of a Participant's Account allocated to different investment options and the portions attributable to the deferral of Incentive Compensation awards and Long Term Incentive Award payments will be accounted for separately.
 
2. ACCOUNT BALANCE  The total amount credited to a Participant's Account at any point in time, including the portions of the Account allocated to each investment option.
3. AWARD YEAR  As to Incentive Compensation, the calendar year with respect to which an Eligible Employee is awarded Incentive Compensation; as to a Long Term Incentive Award payment and the related Company Deferral, the first calendar year in the Performance Period for which the Long Term Incentive Award is effective with respect to an Eligible Employee.
4. BENEFICIARY  The person or persons (including a trust or trusts) validly designated by a Participant, on the form provided by the Company, to receive distributions of the Participant's Account Balance, if any, upon the Participant's death. In the absence of a valid designation, or if the designated Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, the Participant's Beneficiary shall be the personal representative of the Participant's estate in the event of a Participant's death. A Participant may amend his or her Beneficiary designation at any time before the Participant's death.
5. BOARD  The Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation.
6. COMMITTEE  The committee described in Section 1 of Article VIII.
7. COMMON STOCK  The $1.00 par value common stock of the Company.
8. COMPANY  Lockheed Martin Corporation and its subsidiaries.
9. COMPANY DEFERRALS  The amount deferred by the Company, and not at the election of the Participant, for the two-year period following the end of a Performance Period for a Long Term Incentive Award.
10. COMPANY STOCK INVESTMENT OPTION  The investment option under which the amount credited to a Participant's Account will be based on the market value and investment return of the Company's Common Stock.
11. DEFERRAL AGREEMENT  The written agreement executed by an Eligible Employee on the form provided by the Company under which the Eligible Employee elects to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year, or a Long Term Incentive Award and any related Company Deferral for an Award Year.
12. DEFERRAL PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995, and as amended from time to time.
13. DEFERRED COMPENSATION  The amount of Incentive Compensation credited to a Participant's Account under the Deferral Plan and the amount of any Long Term Incentive Award payment credited to a Participant's Account under the Deferral Plan (other than Company Deferrals).
 
14. ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE  An employee of the Company who is a participant in the MICP or who receives a Long Term Incentive Award under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan and who has satisfied such additional requirements for participation in this Deferral Plan as the Committee may from time to time establish. In the exercise of its authority under this provision, the Committee shall limit participation in the Plan to employees whom the Committee believes to be a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
15. EXCHANGE ACT  The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
16. INCENTIVE COMPENSATION  The MICP amount granted to an employee for an Award Year.
17. IPA PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan.
18. INTEREST OPTION  The investment option under which earnings will be credited to a Participant's Account based on the interest rate applicable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation.
19. LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARD  A long term incentive award granted to an employee under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan.
20. MICP  The Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan.
21. OMNIBUS PLAN  The Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan.
22. PARTICIPANT  An Eligible Employee for whom Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment has been deferred for one or more years under this Deferral Plan; the term shall include a former employee whose Deferred Compensation has not been fully distributed.
23. PAYMENT DATE  As to any Participant, the January 15 or July 15 on or about on which payment to the Participant is to be made or to begin in accordance with Article V.
24. PERFORMANCE PERIOD  The period set forth in a Long Term Incentive Award over which the Company's performance is measured by reference to total stockholder return to determine whether any payment will be made under such Long Term Incentive Award.
25. REALLOCATION EFFECTIVE DATE  The date a reallocation elected by a Participant or Beneficiary under Section 6(a) of Article IV is effected, which shall be the June 30, July 31, August 31 or September 30 immediately following the end of the Reallocation Election Period in which his or her election under Section 6(a) becomes irrevocable.
 
26. REALLOCATION ELECTION PERIOD  A period in which a Participant or Beneficiary may under Section 6(a) of Article IV elect a reallocation of his or her Account Balance from one investment option to another investment option, and there shall be four such election periods: June 1 through June 15, 2004, June 16 through July 15, 2004, July 16 through August 15, 2004 and August 16 through September 15, 2004.
27. SECTION 16 PERSON  A Participant who is subject to the reporting and short-swing liability provisions of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on the date a Deferral Agreement or other election form is delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Deferral Plan.
28. SUBSIDIARY  As to any person, any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporation), is owned or controlled (directly or indirectly) by that entity, or by one or more of the Subsidiaries of that entity, or by a combination thereof.
29. TRADING DAY  A day upon which transactions with respect to Company Common Stock are reported in the consolidated transaction reporting system.
1. .
Timing of Deferral Elections
(a) Incentive Compensation. An Eligible Employee may elect to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than October 31 of the Award Year, provided that any election by a Section 16 Person shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 of Article IV.
(b) Long Term Incentive Awards and Company Deferrals. An Eligible Employee may elect to defer the payment of a Long Term Incentive Award and a Company Deferral for an Award Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than October 31 of the Award Year, provided that any election by a Section 16 Person shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 of Article IV.
(c) Irrevocability of Elections. No Eligible Employee shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement for an Award Year after the applicable deadline described in Section 1(a) and Section 1(b) of this Article III for delivering a Deferral Agreement to the Company for such Award Year, provided no Section 16 Person shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement after such applicable deadline or, if earlier, after the date the agreement has been delivered to the Company. The Committee may establish policies and procedures to determine when a Deferral Agreement or other election called for under this Plan has been delivered to the Company. Each Deferral Agreement shall apply only to amounts deferred in that Award Year and a separate Deferral Agreement must be completed for each Award Year for which an Eligible Employee defers Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award.
 
2. . An Eligible Employee's deferral election may be stated as:
Amount of Deferral Elections
(a) a dollar amount which is at least $5,000 and is an even multiple of $1,000,
(b) the greater of $5,000 or a designated percentage of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment (adjusted to the next highest multiple of $1,000),
(c) the excess of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment over a dollar amount specified by the Eligible Employee (which must be an even multiple of $1,000), or
(d) all of the Eligible Employee's Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment.
An Eligible Employee's deferral election shall be effective only if the Participant is awarded, in the case of Incentive Compensation, at least $10,000 of Incentive Compensation for that Award Year, or in the case of Long Term Incentive Award, at least $10,000 is payable to the Participant in cash at the conclusion of the Performance Period applicable to a Long Term Incentive Award payment. In addition, in the case of a deferral election under paragraph (c) of this Section 2, an Eligible Employee's deferral election shall be effective only if the resulting excess amount is at least $5,000.
3. . The amount that would otherwise be deferred and credited to an Eligible Employee's Account will be reduced by the amount of any tax that the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Deferred Compensation. The reduction for taxes shall be made proportionately out of amounts otherwise allocable to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option.
Effect of Taxes on Deferred Compensation
4. . In the case of an Eligible Employee who receives more than one Long Term Incentive Award with respect to the same Performance Period, the elections made by the Eligible Employee under this Article III as well as under Articles V and VI for the first Long Term Incentive Award granted to the Eligible Employee with respect to a Performance Period shall be deemed to be the elections made by that Eligible Employee for any other Long Term Incentive Awards granted to that Eligible Employee with respect to that same Performance Period.
Multiple Awards
5. . Pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Awards, 50% of the amount payable at the end of the Performance Period will be automatically deferred until the second anniversary of the last day of the Performance Period with respect to a particular award. The Company may establish an account for Company Deferrals under the Company Stock Investment Option of this Deferral Plan. However, the terms governing the Company Deferrals will be governed for the two year period of deferral by the terms of the
Company Deferrals
 
award agreement entered into under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan with respect to the Long Term Incentive Award and not by this Deferral Plan except to the extent the award agreement expressly refers to the terms of this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant elects to defer the Company Deferrals beyond the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period, the deferrals will be treated as made under this Deferral Plan for the period following the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period.
1. . Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment that a Participant has elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the Participant's Account as of the Trading Day set by action of the Committee or, if the Committee does not act to set such a day, on the second Trading Day which follows the date of approval of the related Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award. If the Company establishes an account for Company Deferrals pursuant to Section 5 of Article III, the Company Deferrals shall be credited to such account as of the last Trading Day in the Performance Period. Any Deferred Compensation credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Interest Option shall be credited at the dollar amount of such credits, and any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited as if the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the applicable Trading Day described in this Section 1.
Crediting of Deferred Compensation
2. .
Crediting of Earnings and Reallocations
(a) .
General Rules
(i) Earnings shall be credited to a Participant's Account based on the investment option or options to which the Account has been allocated beginning with the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV.
(ii) Earnings on amounts reallocated in accordance with this Article IV shall be credited to the Participant's Account as of the applicable day or Trading Day described for such reallocation in this Article IV.
(iii) Any amount distributed from a Participant's Account pursuant to Article V shall be credited with earnings through the last Trading Day of the month preceding the month in which a distribution is to be made on a Payment Date pursuant to Article V to the extent distributed from the portion of a Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option and shall (subject to Section 2(d) of this Article IV) be credited with earnings through the last day of the month preceding the month in which a distribution is to be made on a Payment Date pursuant to Article V to the extent distributed from the portion of a Participant's Account allocated to the Interest Option.
 
(iv) Company Deferrals shall be credited with earnings through the last Trading Day in the period which ends on the second anniversary of the end of the applicable Performance Period unless deferred further pursuant to a Deferral Agreement.
(b) . The portion of a Participant's Account allocated or reallocated to the Interest Option shall be credited with interest, compounded monthly, while so allocated or reallocated at a rate equivalent to the then published rate for computing the present value of future benefits at the time cost is assignable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on a semi-annual basis pursuant to Pub. L. 92-41, 85 Stat. 97.
Interest Option
(c) .
Company Stock Investment Option
(i) The portion of a Participant's Account allocated or reallocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited when so allocated or reallocated on the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV as if such amount had been invested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on such Trading Day.
(ii) The portion of the Participant's Account Balance allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall reflect any post-allocation appreciation or depreciation in the market value of the Company's Common Stock based on the published closing price of the stock on the last Trading Day of each month and shall reflect dividends paid and any other distributions made with respect to the Company's Common Stock.
(iii) Cash dividends shall be treated as if such dividends had been reinvested in the Company's Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the cash dividend is paid or, if the dividend is paid on a day which is not a Trading Day, on the Trading Day which immediately precedes the day the dividend is paid.
(iv) If any portion of a Participant's Account is reallocated in accordance with paragraph 6 (or paragraph 5 prior to October 1, 2004) of this Article IV from the Company Stock Investment Option to the Interest Option, the reallocation shall be credited to the Interest Option as if the Company's Common Stock had been bought or sold at the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the reallocation is effective, or if the reallocation is effective as of the day that is not a Trading Day, the Trading Day which immediate precedes the effective date of the reallocation.
(d) . If any part of a Participant's Account is allocated to the Interest Option as of a Payment Date and payment does not commence by the last day of the month in which the Payment Date occurs, earnings shall be credited on such part of the Participant's Account from
Interest Crediting For Late Payments
 
the last day of the month preceding the Payment Date to the last day of the month preceding the month the late payment actually is made at the rate set forth under Section 2(b) of this Article IV. All the interest credited under this Section 2(d) of this Article IV with respect to a late payment shall be paid on the date the late payment is first made.
3. . A Participant's investment elections for a particular type of award for an Award Year shall be made in his or her Deferral Agreement for such Award Year, and no Participant shall (except as provided for in Section 6 and Section 7 of this Article IV) have the right to modify or revoke any such election after the time the Participant no longer has the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement under Section 1 of Article III. A Participant's allocations between investment options shall be subject to such minimum allocations as the Committee may establish.
Election of Investment Options
4. . An election by a Section 16 Person to have any Deferred Compensation allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be effective on the Trading Day described in Section 1 of this Article IV unless he or she delivers the related Deferral Agreement to the Company less than six months before such Trading Day. If he or she delivers the related Deferral Agreement to the Company less than six months before such date, his or her Company Stock Investment Option election automatically shall be treated as an Interest Option election under Section 1 of this Article IV until the first Trading Day of the seventh month following the month in which the Deferral Agreement is delivered to the Company. The Deferred Compensation so allocated to the to the Interest Option together with any related interest credits shall by operation of this Deferral Plan automatically be reallocated and credited to the Company Stock Investment Option on such Trading Day in accordance with Section 2(b) of this Article IV.
Special Rule for Section 16 Persons
. If benefit payments to a Participant or Beneficiary are to be paid or commenced to be paid over a period that extends more than six months after the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company, the Participant or Beneficiary, as applicable, may make a one-time irrevocable election under this Section 5 at any time after the Participant's termination of employment and before the completion of benefit payments to have the portion of the Participant's Account that is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option reallocated to the Interest Option. A reallocation under this Section 5 shall take effect as of the first Trading Day of the month following the month in which an executed reallocation election is delivered to the Company, provided an election by a Participant or Beneficiary who is a Section 16 Person on the date the election is delivered to the Company shall be effective only if such election satisfies on such date all the requirements of the exemption under Rule l6b-3 of the Exchange Act for a "discretionary transaction" or otherwise would not result in a short swing profit recovery pursuant to Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act. In the event such election does not satisfy the exemption pursuant to Rule l6b-3 under the Exchange Act for a "discretionary transaction" and if giving effect to the election would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the election shall not be given effect until the first Trading Day of the month following the month in which the election could be given effect without creating liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, no election may be made under this Section 5 after September 15, 2004, and any such election made during September 2004 will be valued and take effect as of September 30, 2004.
Reallocations to Interest Option (deleted effective September 30, 2004)
 
5. .
One-Time Reallocation Right
(a) . Subject to Section 5(b) of this Article IV, a Participant or Beneficiary may during a Reallocation Election Period execute and deliver to the Company an election made on such form and in such manner as prescribed by the Committee to the Company to reallocate all or a portion (in five (5) percent increments) of his or her Account Balance (other than Company Deferrals) which is then allocated to one investment option to the other investment option. Any such election shall be irrevocable when received by the Company, and the reallocation which the Participant or Beneficiary elects shall be effective as of the Reallocation Effective Date that immediately follows the end of the Reallocation Election Period in which his or her election becomes irrevocable. Only one reallocation election may be made by a Participant or Beneficiary with the result that a reallocation made in one Reallocation Election Period will preclude a reallocation election in a subsequent Reallocation Election Period.
General Rule
(b) . If a Participant or a Beneficiary is a Section 16 Person on any date in a Reallocation Election Period and delivers an election to the Company in such period, such election shall have no force or effect under Section 6(a) unless such election complies with the exemption under Rule l6b-3 of the Exchange Act for a "discretionary transaction".
Exception
(c) . The Company shall credit to the Account of each Participant or Beneficiary that has Deferred Compensation (other than Company Deferrals) credited to the Stock Investment Option as of September 30, 2004 an amount equal to the greater of (i) $24.95 per Account Balance; or (ii) $0.10 for each whole share of Common Stock reflected in the Participant's or Beneficiary's Account Balance (exclusive of Company Deferrals). Such amount shall be allocated and credited to the Interest Option as of September 30, 2004, after taking into account any reallocation under Section 6(a) of this Article IV.
Additional Credit
1. .
General
(a) . The Company's liability to pay benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary under this Deferral Plan shall be measured by and shall in no event exceed the Participant's Account Balance. Except as otherwise provided in this Deferral Plan (including but not limited to Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals), a Participant's Account Balance shall be paid to him in accordance with the Participant's elections under this Article V.
Account Balance and Elections
(b) . With respect to benefit payments made on a Payment Date which is on or before September 30, 2004, all such benefit payments shall be
Cash Only Payment
 
made in accordance with the terms of this Deferral Plan as in effect on such date in cash and, except as otherwise provided under such terms, shall reduce allocations to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant's Account Balance is allocated between those investment options at the end of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this Deferral Plan which is attributable to the Stock Investment Option unless such amount was allocated to the Participant's Account in accordance with Section 1 of Article 4 at least six months prior to the date of distribution or no portion of such amount was allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option in the six months prior to distribution.
(c) . With respect to benefit payments made after September 30, 2004, all such benefit payments shall be made in cash to the extent a Participant's Account is allocated to the Interest Option or is attributable to Company Deferrals and shall be made in whole shares of the Company's Common Stock to the extent that a Participant's Account is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option (other than with respect to Company Deferrals) and, except as otherwise provided, shall reduce allocations to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant's Account Balance is allocated between those investment options at the end of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this Deferral Plan unless such amount was allocated to the Participant's Account in accordance with Section 1 of Article 4 at least six months prior to the date of distribution At the Company's discretion a distribution of Common Stock may be made directly to a Participant or to a brokerage account opened in the name of the Participant. When an Account is distributed in a lump sum or, if an Account is distributed in installments, when the final installment is made, cash shall be distributed at that time in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock. The cash distribution in lieu of fractional shares shall be based on the published closing price of the Company's Common Stock on the last Trading Day of the month preceding the date the distribution is scheduled to be made.
Cash and Stock Payments
2. . At the time a Participant first completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect from among the following options governing the date on which the payment of benefits shall commence:
Election for Commencement of Payment
(a) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company for any reason.
(b) Payment to begin on the first Payment Date of the year next following the year in which the Participant terminates employment with the Company for any reason.
(c) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date on which the Participant has both terminated employment with the Company for any reason and attained the age designated by the Participant in the Deferral Agreement.
Notwithstanding a Participant's election, any payment of benefits in the form of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise commence within six months of the date on which a Participant ceased to be Section 16 Person shall not be paid on that date but instead shall be paid on the first Payment Date that is at least six months after the date on which that Participant ceased to be a Section 16 Person.
 
3. . At the time a Participant first completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect the form of payment of his or her Account Balance from among the following options:
Election for Form of Payment
 
 
4. .
Prospective Change of Payment Elections
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article V, a Participant may make an election with respect to the commencement of payment (from among the options set forth in Section 2(A), (B), or (C) above) and form of payment (from among the options set forth in Section 3(A) or (B) above) of his or her entire Account Balance, or with respect to specific Award Years, by executing and delivering to the Company an election form on or after October 1, 2002 in such form as prescribed by the Company. If a Participant has different payment options in effect with respect to his or her Account Balance, the Company shall maintain sub-accounts for the Participant to determine the amounts subject to each payment election; however, no election or modification of an election will be accepted if it would require the Company to maintain more than five sub-accounts within the Participant's Account in order to make payments in accordance with the Participant's elections.
(b) In the event a Participant does not make a valid election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of benefit for an Award Year commencing on or after October 1, 2002, the Participant will be deemed to have elected that payment of benefits with respect to that Award Year be made in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment.
(c) A Participant's election with respect to an Award Year (including a "deemed election" in accordance with the preceding paragraph) shall remain in effect unless and until such election is modified by a subsequent election in accordance with the second preceding paragraph above.
 
(d) To constitute a valid election by a Participant making a prospective change to a previous election, the prospective election must be executed and delivered to the Company (i) at least six months before the date the first payment would be due under the Participant's previous election and (ii) in a different calendar year than the date the first payment would be due under the Participant's previous election. In the event an election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in this paragraph, such election shall be void and, if such an election is void, payment shall be made in accordance with the most recent election which was valid. In addition, no prospective election will be considered valid to the extent the prospective election would (i) result in a payment being made within six months of the date of the prospective election or (ii) result in a payment under the prospective election in the same calendar year as the date of the prospective election. In the event a prospective election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in the preceding sentence, the first payment under the prospective election will be delayed until the first Payment Date that is both (i) at least six months after the date of the prospective election and (ii) in a calendar year after the date of the prospective election.
(e) A Participant may not make or modify an election with respect to commencement of payment or form of payment after the date a Participant terminates employment.
5. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, if the Participant terminates employment with the Company other than by reason of layoff, death or disability and before the Participant is eligible to commence receiving retirement benefits under a pension plan maintained by the Company (or before the Participant has attained age 55 if the Participant does not participate in such a pension plan), except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Participant's Account Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant's termination of employment with the Company; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Acceleration upon Early Termination
6. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, if following a Participant's termination of employment with the Company, the Participant takes a position (or accepts a position) with a governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality and that employer has determined or indicated that the Participant's continued participation in the Plan may constitute a conflict of interest precluding the Participant from continuing in his position (or from accepting an offered position) with that employer or subjecting the Participant to penalty, sanction, or otherwise limiting the Participant's responsibilities for that employer, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, then the Participant's Account Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum as soon as practical following the later of (i) the date on which the Participant commences employment with the government employer; or (ii) the date on which it is determined or indicated that the conflict of interest may exist. This Section 6 shall be applicable only to the extent that such distribution conforms to Code section 409A.
Acceleration Upon Conflict of Interest
 
7. .
Death Benefits
(a) . Upon the death of a Participant before a complete distribution of his or her Account Balance, the Account Balance will be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary in accordance with the payment elections applicable to the Participant. If a Participant dies while actively employed or otherwise before the payment of benefits has commenced, payments to the Beneficiary shall commence on the date payments to the Participant would have commenced, taking account of the Participant's termination of employment (by death or before) and, if applicable, by postponing commencement until after the date the Participant would have attained the commencement age specified by the Participant. Whether the Participant dies before or after the commencement of distributions, payments to the Beneficiary shall be made for the period or remaining period elected by the Participant.
General Rule
(b) . Notwithstanding Section 7(a) of this Article V, in the event that a Participant dies before the Participant's entire Account Balance has been distributed, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may modify the timing of distributions from the Participant's Account, including the commencement date and number of distributions, if it concludes that such modification is necessary to relieve the financial burdens of the Participant's Beneficiary; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 7(b) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Special Rule
8. . Notwithstanding a Participant's payment elections under this Article V, a Participant or Beneficiary may request an earlier distribution in the following limited circumstances (except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals):
Early Distributions in Special Circumstances
(a) . A Participant may apply for a hardship distribution pursuant to this Section 8(a) on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall prescribe and, subject to the last sentence of this Section 8(a) with respect to Section 16 Persons, the Committee shall have the power and discretion at any time to approve a payment to a Participant if the Committee determines that the Participant is suffering from a serious financial emergency caused by circumstances beyond the Participant's control which would cause a hardship to the Participant unless such payment were made. Any such hardship payment will be in a lump sum and will not exceed the lesser of (i) the amount necessary to satisfy the financial emergency (taking account of the income tax liability associated with the distribution), or (ii) the Participant's Account Balance; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(a) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be
Hardship Distributions
 
delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
(b) . A Participant may elect on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall prescribe at any time to withdraw ninety percent (90%) of the amount credited to the Participant's Account. If such a withdrawal is made, the remaining ten percent (10%) of the Participant's Account shall be permanently forfeited, and the Participant will be prohibited from deferring any amount under the Deferral Plan for the Award Year in which the withdrawal is received (or the first Award Year in which any portion of the withdrawal is received); provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(b) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Withdrawal with Forfeiture
(c) . If the Committee determines that a Participant has become permanently disabled before the Participant's entire Account Balance has been distributed, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may modify the timing of distributions from the Participant's Account, including the commencement date and number of distributions, if it concludes that such modification is necessary to relieve the financial burdens of the Participant; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(c) from the portion of the Participant's Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16 (b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Disability
9. .
Acceleration upon Change in Control
(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Deferral Plan, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Account Balance of each Participant shall be distributed in a single lump sum within fifteen (15) calendar days following a "Change in Control."
(b) For purposes of this Deferral Plan, a Change in Control shall include and be deemed to occur upon the following events:
(1) A tender offer or exchange offer is consummated for the ownership of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.
 
(2) The Company is merged, combined, consolidated, recapitalized or otherwise reorganized with one or more other entities that are not Subsidiaries and, as a result of the merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization or other reorganization, less than 75% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall immediately after the event be owned in the aggregate by the stockholders of the Company (directly or indirectly), determined on the basis of record ownership as of the date of determination of holders entitled to vote on the action (or in the absence of a vote, the day immediately prior to the event)
(3) Any person (as this term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act, but excluding any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1 (b)(1) thereunder), becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.
(4) At any time within any period of two years after a tender offer, merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization, or other reorganization or a contested election, or any combination of these events, the "Incumbent Directors" shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the authorized number of members of the Board. For purposes hereof, "Incumbent Directors" shall mean the persons who were members of the Board immediately before the first of these events and the persons who were elected or nominated as their successors or pursuant to increases in the size of the Board by a vote of at least three-fourths of the Board members who were then Board members (or successors or additional members so elected or nominated)
(5) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution or the sale or transfer of substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets as an entirety to an entity that is not a Subsidiary.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(a), if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(a) would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to any Section 16 Person, then the date of distribution to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
 
(d) This Section 9 shall apply only to a Change in Control of Lockheed Martin Corporation and shall not cause immediate payout of Deferred Compensation in any transaction involving the Company's sale, liquidation, merger, or other disposition of any subsidiary.
(e) The Committee may cancel or modify this Section 9 at any time prior to a Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control, this Section 9 shall remain in force and effect, and shall not be subject to cancellation or modification for a period of five years, and any defined term used in Section 9 shall not, for purposes of Section 9, be subject to cancellation or modification during the five-year period.
10. . In the event that the payment of benefits in accordance with the Participant's elections under this Article V would prevent the Company from claiming an income tax deduction with respect to any portion of the benefits paid, the Committee shall have the right to modify the timing of distributions from the Participant's Account as necessary to maximize the Company's tax deductions. In the exercise of its discretion to adopt a modified distribution schedule, the Committee shall undertake to have distributions made at such times and in such amounts as most closely approximate the Participant's elections, consistent with the objective of maximum deductibility for the Company. The Committee shall have no authority to reduce a Participant's Account Balance or to pay aggregate benefits less than the Participant's Account Balance in the event that all or a portion thereof would not be deductible by the Company.
Deductibility of Payments
11. . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if the Committee determines in good faith, based on consultation with counsel, that the Federal income tax treatment or legal status of the Plan has or may be adversely affected by a change in the Code, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or other applicable law or by an administrative or judicial construction thereof, the Committee may direct that the Accounts of affected Participants or of all Participants be distributed as soon as practicable after such determination is made, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee to cure or mitigate the consequences, or possible consequences of, such change in law or interpretation thereof.
Change of Law
12. . To the extent required by law, the Company shall withhold from benefit payments hereunder, or with respect to any Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment deferred hereunder or credit contributed by the Company under Article IV, any Federal, state, or local income or payroll taxes required to be withheld and shall furnish the recipient and the applicable government agency or agencies with such reports, statements, or information as may be legally required.
Tax Withholding
 
1. . This Deferral Plan constitutes a mere contractual promise by the Company to make payments in the future, and each Participant's rights shall be those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. No Participant shall have any beneficial interest in any specific assets that the Company may hold or set aside in connection with this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to assist the Company in meeting its obligations under this Deferral Plan, the Company may set aside assets in a trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64, 1992-2 C.B. 422, and the Company may direct that its obligations under this Deferral Plan be satisfied by payments out of such trust. The assets of any such trust will remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. It is the Company's intention that the Deferral Plan be unfunded for Federal income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
Unfunded Status of Plan
2. . A Participant's rights under this Deferral Plan shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Deferral Plan, or any interest therein shall not be permitted or recognized, other than the designation of, or passage of payment rights to, a Beneficiary. Notwithstanding, any portion of a Participant's benefit under this Plan may be paid to a spouse or former spouse pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order (as defined in Code section 414(p)(1)(B)), provided that the form of payment designated in such order is one that is provided for under Section 3 of Article V of this Deferral Plan.
Nonalienability of Benefits
1. . The Board may amend, modify, suspend or discontinue this Deferral Plan at any time subject to any shareholder approval that may be required under applicable law, provided, however, that no such amendment shall have the effect of reducing a Participant's Account Balance or postponing the time when a Participant is entitled to receive a distribution of his Account Balance. Further, no amendment may alter the formula for crediting interest to Participants' Accounts with respect to amounts for which deferral elections have previously been made, unless the amended formula is not less favorable to Participants than that previously in effect, or unless each affected Participant consents to such change.
Amendment
2. . The Board reserves the right to terminate this Plan at any time and to pay all Participants their Account Balances in a lump sum immediately following such termination or at such time thereafter as the Board may determine; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Termination
 
3. . The Board reserves the right to transfer to another entity all of the obligations of Company with respect to a Participant under this Plan if such entity agrees pursuant to a binding written agreement to assume all of the obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to such Participant.
Transfer of Liability
1. . This Deferral Plan shall be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board and constituted so as to permit this Deferral Plan to comply with the disinterested administration requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act. The members of the Committee shall be designated by the Board. A majority of the members of the Committee (but not fewer than two) shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of a quorum or the unanimous written consent of the Committee shall constitute action by the Committee. The Committee shall have full authority to interpret the Plan, and interpretations of the Plan by the Committee shall be final and binding on all parties.
The Committee
2. . The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Deferral Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose, except that the Committee may not delegate any authority the delegation of which would cause this Deferral Plan to fail to satisfy the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3. In making any determination or in taking or not taking any action under this Deferral Plan, the Committee may obtain and rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Company. No member of the Committee or officer of the Company who is a Participant hereunder may participate in any decision specifically relating to his or her individual rights or benefits under the Deferral Plan.
Delegation and Reliance
3. . Neither the Company nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under this Deferral Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application thereof, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under this Deferral Plan or for the failure of the Deferral Plan or any Participant's rights under the Deferral Plan to achieve intended tax consequences, to qualify for exemption or relief under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, or to comply with any other law, compliance with which is not required on the part of the Company.
Exculpation and Indemnity
4. . If a minor, person declared incompetent, or person incapable of handling the disposition of his or her property is entitled to receive a benefit, make an application, or make an election hereunder, the Committee may direct that such benefits be paid to, or such application or election be made by, the guardian, legal representative, or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent, or incapable person. Any payment made, application allowed, or election implemented in accordance with this Section shall completely discharge the Company and the Committee from all liability with respect thereto.
Facility of Payment
 
5. . The Committee may require proof of the death, disability, incompetency, minority, or incapacity of any Participant or Beneficiary and of the right of a person to receive any benefit or make any application or election.
Proof of Claims
6. . If a claim under this Deferral Plan is denied by the Committee, the Committee shall communicate such denial and shall provide an opportunity to appeal such denial in a manner which the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances, which may include following the then applicable claims procedures under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Claim Procedures
1. . Neither this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral nor a Participant's Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, shall in any way obligate the Company to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, nor does either this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement limit the right of the Company at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant's employment. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company and a Participant. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications in any way obligate the Company to award Incentive Compensation, grant any award under the Omnibus Plan or IPA Plan or make any Long Term Incentive Award payment to any Eligible Employee for any Award Year, whether or not the Eligible Employee is a Participant in the Deferral Plan for that Award Year, nor in any other way limit the right of the Company to change an Eligible Employee's compensation or other benefits.
No Guarantee of Employment or Award
2. . Neither Incentive Compensation nor Long Term Incentive Award payments deferred under this Deferral Plan shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating the amount of a Participant's benefits or contributions under any pension, retirement, or other plan maintained by the Company, except as provided in such other plan.
Affect on Retirement Plans
3. . Any written notice to the Company referred to herein shall be made by mailing or delivering such notice to the Company at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, to the attention of the Vice President, Human Resources. Any written notice to a Participant shall be made by delivery to the Participant in person, through electronic transmission, or by mailing such notice to the Participant at his or her last-known place of residence or business address.
Notice
4. . In the event it should become impossible for the Company or the Committee to perform any act required by this Deferral Plan, the Company or the Committee may perform such other act as it in good faith determines will most nearly carry out the intent and the purpose of this Deferral Plan.
Performance of Acts
 
5. . By electing to become a Participant hereunder, each Eligible Employee shall be deemed conclusively to have accepted and consented to all of the terms of this Deferral Plan and all actions or decisions made by the Company, the Board, or Committee with regard to the Deferral Plan.
Employee Consent
6. . The provisions of this Deferral Plan and the Deferral Agreements hereunder shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors, and its assigns, and to the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives.
Terms Binding
7. . A copy of this Deferral Plan shall be available for inspection by Participants or other persons entitled to benefits under the Deferral Plan at reasonable times at the offices of the Company.
Copy of Plan
8. . The validity of this Deferral Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Maryland, except as to matters of Federal law. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.
State Law
9. . This Deferral Plan and its operation, including but not limited to, the mechanics of deferral elections, the issuance of securities, if any, or the payment of cash hereunder is subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws) and such other approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be necessary or advisable in connection therewith.
Regulatory Requirements
10. . It is the intent of the Company that this Deferral Plan satisfy and be interpreted in a manner, that, in the case of Participants who are or may be Section 16 Persons, satisfies any applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or other exemptive rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not subject Section 16 Persons to short-swing profit liability thereunder. If any provision of this Deferral Plan would otherwise frustrate or conflict with the intent expressed in this Section 10, that provision to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict. To the extent of any remaining irreconcilable conflict with this intent, the provision shall be deemed disregarded. Similarly, any action or election by a Section 16 Person with respect to the Deferral Plan to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid liability under Section 16 or, if this is not possible, to the extent necessary to avoid liability under Section 16, shall be deemed ineffective. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Deferral Plan, the provisions of this Deferral Plan may at any time be bifurcated by the Board or the Committee in any manner so that certain provisions of this Deferral Plan are applicable solely to Section 16 Persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan to the contrary, if a distribution which would otherwise occur is prohibited or proposed to be delayed because of the
Section 16 of Exchange Act
 
provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or the provisions of the Deferral Plan designed to ensure compliance with Section 16, the Section 16 Person involved may affirmatively elect in writing to have the distribution occur in any event; provided that the Section 16 Person shall concurrently enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Committee in its sole discretion for the satisfaction of any and all liabilities, costs and expenses arising from this election.
11. . This Deferral Plan, allocations to and from the Company Stock Investment Option and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or property or the payment of cash under this Deferral Plan, are subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws and Federal margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company be necessary or advisable to comply with all legal requirements. Any securities delivered under this Deferral Plan shall be subject to such restrictions (and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company provide such evidence, assurance and representations to the Company as to compliance with any thereof) as counsel to the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements.
Securities Laws
12. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan, each Eligible Employee who is a Section 16 Person and has entered into a Deferral Agreement prior to the initial distribution of a prospectus relating to this Deferral Plan shall be entitled, during a ten-business-day period following the initial distribution of that prospectus, to make an irrevocable election to (i) receive a distribution of all or any portion of his or her Account Balance attributable to Deferred Compensation for the 1995 Award Year during the seventh month following the month of the election, or (ii) reallocate all or any part of his or her Account Balance attributable to Deferred Compensation for the 1995 Award Year to a different investment option as of the end of the sixth month following the month of the election.
1995 Awards
13. . At no time shall the aggregate Account Balances of all Participants to the extent allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option exceed an amount equal to the then fair market value of 5,000,000 shares of the Company's Common Stock, nor shall the cumulative amount of Incentive Compensation and Long Term Incentive Award payments deferred under this Deferral Plan by all Eligible Employees for all Award Years exceed $250,000,000.
Limits on Accounts
14. . Whenever a signature notice or delivery of a document is required or appropriate under this Deferral Plan, signature, notice or delivery may be accomplished by paper or written format or, to the extent authorized by the Committee, by electronic means. In the event the Committee authorizes electronic means for the signature, notice or delivery of a document under this Deferral Plan, the electronic record or confirmation of that signature, notice or delivery maintained by or on behalf of the Committee shall for purposes of this Deferral Plan be treated as if it was a written signature or notice and was delivered in the manner provided herein for a written document.
Electronic Notice and Signatures
 
This Deferral Plan was adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995 and became effective upon adoption to awards of Incentive Compensation for the Company's fiscal year ending December 31, 1995 and subsequent fiscal years; provided, however, that with respect to Section 16 Persons, the availability of the Company Stock Investment Option is conditioned upon the approval of this Deferral Plan by the stockholders of Lockheed Martin Corporation. In the event that this Deferral Plan is not approved by the stockholders, then Section 16 Persons shall not be entitled to have Deferred Compensation allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option; any prior elections by Section 16 Persons to have allocations made to the Company Stock Investment Option shall retroactively be deemed ineffective, and the Account Balances of those Section 16 Persons shall be restated as if all of their Deferred Compensation had been allocated to the Interest Option at all times. Subsequent amendments to the Deferral Plan are effective as of the date stated in the amendment or the adopting resolution.
This Deferral Plan has been amended and restated effective as of the date stated on the first page herein.
 


