FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20070222151019.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation today announced a realignment of some of its business segments along with some personnel changes. The realignment is being made to enhance support for critical customer missions and increase the Corporation's integration of resources.
Effective immediately, the Integrated Systems & Solutions (IS&S) business segment and the Information Technology & Global Services (IT&GS) business segment will be combined. The new business segment will be named Information Systems & Global Services (IS&GS) and will be led by Linda Gooden. Gooden is currently Executive Vice President of IT&GS. The new business segment will be headquartered in Gaithersburg, Maryland, and will include most of the existing components of the current IT&GS and IS&S organizations with the following exceptions:
 
 
 
In addition to the above changes, the Advanced Concepts organization, including the Center for Innovationnow reporting to IS&Swill report to the Chief Technology Officer. These changes do not affect the historical results, discussion or presentation of business segments that will be reflected in the Corporation's 2006 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Corporation plans to begin to report its financial results consistent with this new structure beginning with the first quarter of 2007.
Separately, IS&S Executive Vice President Stan Sloane has announced that he will retire from the Corporation and has accepted a position with another company.
 
The Corporation plans to provide information regarding historical segment results reclassified from amounts previously reported and 2007 segment outlook to reflect the new business segment presentation in connection with the Corporation's 2007 first- quarter earnings release.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
February 22, 2007
 


