FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20091020073607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 20, 2009 Lockheed Martin Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter ended September 27, 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
On October 15, 2009, Lockheed Martin announced that its Board of Directors elected Christopher E. Kubasik to serve as President and Chief Operating Officer, effective January 1, 2010.  Mr. Kubasik, 48, currently serves as Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martins Electronic Systems business area.  Prior to his appointment to that position in 2007, Mr. Kubasik served as the Corporations Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, responsible for financial strategies, processes and operations.
In the new organizational alignment, Mr. Kubasik will report to Robert J. Stevens, who will remain Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation.  Lockheed Martins four business area Executive Vice Presidents, the Senior Vice President of Operations and Program Management, and the Chief Information Officer and Vice President of Enterprise Services will report to Mr. Kubasik.  The remaining corporate staff functions will continue to report to Mr. Stevens.
The Corporation plans to name Mr. Kubasiks successor as Executive Vice President of Electronic Systems soon.  A copy of the Corporations press release announcing this change is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this report.  Exhibit 99.2 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
October 20, 2009
- 3 - -
 
 

Information
For Immediate Release
 
BETHESDA, Md. Oct. 20, 2009  Lockheed Martin Corporation (NYSE: LMT) today reported third quarter 2009 net earnings of $797 million ($2.07 per diluted share), compared to $782 million ($1.92 per diluted share) in 2008. Net earnings in 2009 included higher pension expense as disclosed in our Jan. 22, 2009 earnings release and in our 2008 Form 10-K.  The third quarter of 2009 included a FAS/CAS pension adjustment of ($113) million and an unusual tax benefit of $58 million from the resolution of an IRS examination. These items together decreased third quarter 2009 net earnings by $15 million ($0.04 per share). The third quarter of 2008 included a FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $32 million and an unusual gain of $44 million, which together increased net earnings by $49 million ($0.12 per share).
Net sales for the third quarter of 2009 were $11.1 billion, compared to $10.6 billion in 2008. Cash from operations for the third quarter of 2009 was $1.4 billion, compared to $1.1 billion in 2008.
Our third quarter results keep the Corporation on track to achieve full year 2009 operational and financial commitments, said Bob Stevens, Chairman, President and CEO. Our diverse portfolio of programs is well positioned to provide critical, global security solutions to our customers as we support their changing program priorities and generate shareholder value.
Summary Reported Results and Outlook
The following table presents the Corporations results for the periods referenced in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):
 
 
2
The following table and other sections of this press release contain forward-looking statements, which are based on the Corporations current expectations.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected.  See the Forward-Looking Statements discussion contained in this press release.
 
 
 
The Corporations updated outlook for 2009 diluted earnings per share primarily reflects the following revisions:
The updated outlook for 2009 cash from operations anticipates that the Corporation will make at least a $1 billion discretionary contribution to the defined benefit pension plans trust during the fourth quarter.
 
3
 
 
 
The outlook for 2010 earnings before income taxes and earnings per share assumes that the Corporation's 2010 non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment would be calculated using a discount rate of 6.125%, that the return on plan assets in 2009 would be approximately 8.5%, and that the Corporation will make a $1 billion discretionary contribution to the defined benefit pension plans trust in 2009.  The outlook for 2010 cash from operations anticipates that the Corporation will make additional contributions of approximately $1.4 billion to the defined benefit pension plans trust during 2010.  The Corporation anticipates recovering approximately $1 billion during 2010 as CAS cost, with the remainder being recoverable in future years.
The 2010 non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment and related assumptions will not be finalized until year-end 2009, consistent with the Corporation's pension plan measurement date.  These assumptions may change and could differ materially at the year-end measurement date.  For example, a 25 basis point change in the discount rate would result in a $95 million change in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment. Similarly, a 100 basis point change in the actual return on plan assets would result in a $10 million change in the FAS/CAS pension adjustment. The Corporation will update its FAS/CAS pension adjustment and projections for cash from operations taking into account any changes in required defined benefit plan funding obligations, as necessary, when it announces 2009 year-end financial results.
 
The research and development (R&D) tax credit expires on Dec. 31, 2009, and has not been incorporated into our outlook for 2010.  The benefit of the R&D tax credit (approximately $0.11 per share for 2009) will not be incorporated into our 2010 outlook or results unless it is extended by Congress.
4
 
It is the Corporation's practice not to incorporate adjustments to its outlook for proposed acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, or unusual items until such transactions have been consummated.
Balanced Cash Deployment Strategy
The Corporation continued to execute its balanced cash deployment strategy during the
quarter and nine months ended Sept. 27, 2009 by:
Additionally, the Corporation increased its quarterly dividend 10.5 percent or $0.06 per share. The new quarterly dividend will be $0.63 per share payable Dec. 31, 2009 to its holders of record as of the close of business Dec. 1, 2009.
Segment Results
The Corporation operates in four principal business segments: Electronic Systems; Information Systems & Global Services (IS&GS); Aeronautics; and Space Systems.
5
 
The following table presents the operating results of the four business segments and reconciles these amounts to the Corporations consolidated financial results.
 
 
In our discussion of comparative results, changes in net sales and operating profit generally are expressed in terms of volume and/or performance.  Volume refers to increases (or decreases) in sales resulting from varying production activity levels, deliveries, or service levels on individual contracts.  Volume changes typically include a corresponding change in operating profit based on the estimated profit rate at completion for a particular contract for design, development, and production activities.  Performance generally refers to changes in contract profit booking rates.  These changes to our contracts for products usually relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion of the contracts that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating or award fee performance on a particular contract.  Changes in contract profit booking rates on contracts for products are recognized by recording adjustments in the current period for the inception-to-date effect of the changes on current and prior periods.  Recognition of the inception-to-date adjustment in the current or prior periods may affect the comparison of segment operating results.
 
6
 
Electronic Systems
 
 
Net sales for Electronic Systems increased by 4% for the quarter and 3% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. During the quarter, sales increases at Maritime Systems & Sensors (MS2) and Missiles & Fire Control (M&FC) more than offset a decline at Platforms & Training (P&T). The increase at MS2 mainly was due to higher volume on surface naval warfare, tactical systems and radar systems programs. The increase at M&FC primarily was due to growth on tactical missile and air defense programs. At P&T, lower volume on platform integration activities and distribution technology programs partially was offset by growth on simulation and training activities.
During the nine month period, sales increased in all three lines of business. The increase at M&FC primarily was attributable to higher volume on tactical missile programs. The increase at MS2 mainly was due to higher volume on surface naval warfare, tactical systems and radar systems programs, which partially were offset by declines in integrated defense technology programs. At P&T, higher volume on simulation and training activities partially was offset by lower volume on platform integration and distribution technology programs. The increase in simulation and training also included sales from the first quarter 2009 acquisition of Universal Systems and Technology, Inc.
Operating profit for Electronic Systems increased by 7% for the quarter and 4% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. During the quarter, an increase in operating profit at M&FC more than offset declines at MS2 and P&T. The increase at M&FC mainly was due to higher volume and improved performance on tactical missile and air defense programs as well as improved performance on fire control systems. The decrease at MS2 primarily was attributable to a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on tactical systems and surface naval warfare programs. The decline at P&T resulted from lower volume on platform integration activities and a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on distribution technology programs.
 
7
During the nine month period, increases in operating profit at M&FC and P&T more than offset a decline at MS2. The increase at M&FC mainly was due to higher volume on tactical missile programs and improved performance on fire control systems. The increase in P&Ts operating profit primarily was attributable to improved performance on platform integration activities and the benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2009 from favorably resolving a simulation and training contract matter. These increases partially were offset by declines in volume and a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on distribution technology programs. The decrease at MS2 primarily was attributable to a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on integrated defense technology and tactical systems programs.
Information Systems & Global Services
 
 
Net sales for IS&GS increased by 1% for the quarter and 5% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. During the quarter, the sales increase primarily was attributable to higher volume on enterprise civilian services in Civil. Sales for Defense and Intelligence were relatively unchanged between the quarters. During the nine month period, increases in Defense and Civil partially were offset by declines in Intelligence. Defense sales primarily increased due to higher volume on mission and combat systems activities and readiness and stability operations. Civil increased principally due to higher volume on enterprise civilian services. Intelligence sales declined slightly between periods mainly due to lower volume on enterprise integration activities.
Operating profit for IS&GS decreased by 9% for the quarter and 5% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, operating profit declined in Intelligence and Defense and remained unchanged in Civil. The decrease in Intelligence mainly was due to a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on security solutions activities. The decrease in Defense primarily was attributable to performance on global programs.
8
During the nine month period, operating profit declines in Civil and Intelligence more than offset growth in Defense. The decrease in Civil primarily was attributable to the absence in 2009 of a benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2008 for a contract restructuring and the absence of a favorable performance adjustment recognized in the second quarter of 2008, both of which occurred on an enterprise civilian services program. The decrease in Intelligence mainly was due to lower volume on enterprise integration activities and a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on security solution activities. The increase in Defense mainly was due to volume and improved performance in mission and combat systems and readiness and stability operations.
The prior period amounts for IS&GS have been reclassified to conform to its current lines of business (Civil, Defense and Intelligence). The realignment had no impact on the segments operating results.
Aeronautics
 
 
Net sales for Aeronautics increased by 6% for the quarter and 4% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. In both periods, sales increased in all three lines of business. The increase in Combat Aircraft principally was due to higher volume on the F-35 program, which more than offset lower volume on F-22 and F-16 programs. The increase in Air Mobility primarily was attributable to higher volume on the C-130J program, including deliveries and support activities. There were four C-130J deliveries in the third quarter of 2009 and three in the comparable 2008 period. There were ten
C-130J deliveries in the nine month period of 2009 and nine in the comparable 2008 period. The increase in Other Aeronautics Programs mainly was due to higher volume on advanced development programs and P-3 programs, which partially were offset by declines in other sustainment activities.
 
9
Operating profit for Aeronautics increased by 6% for the quarter and 8% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  In both periods, the growth in operating profit primarily was due to increases in Air Mobility and Other Aeronautics Programs, which partially were offset by declines in Combat Aircraft. The increase in Air Mobility operating profit primarily was due to higher volume on C-130J programs and improved performance on C-130 support programs.  During the nine month period, Air Mobilitys operating profit also increased due to improved performance on C-5 programs. The increase in Other Aeronautics Programs mainly was attributable to improved performance in sustainment activities and a favorable contract restructuring of a P-3 modification contract. The decrease in Combat Aircraft operating profit primarily was due to lower volume on the F-22 program and a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on F-16 programs. These decreases more than offset increased operating profit resulting from higher volume and improved performance on the F-35 program.
Space Systems
 
 
Net sales for Space Systems increased by 9% for the quarter and 1% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, sales growth at Satellites and Space Transportation more than offset a decline in Strategic & Defensive Missile Systems (S&DMS).  The sales growth in Satellites was due to higher volume in commercial satellite and government satellite activities. There was one commercial satellite delivery in the third quarter of 2009. There were no commercial satellite deliveries during the third quarter of 2008. The increase in Space Transportation principally was due to higher volume on the Orion program in 2009.  S&DMS' sales decreased mainly due to lower volume on defensive missile programs.
During the nine month period, growth in Satellites more than offset declines in sales at Space Transportation and S&DMS. The sales growth in Satellites was due to higher volume in government satellite activities, which partially was offset by lower volume in commercial satellite activities. There was one commercial satellite delivery during the nine month period in 2009 and two deliveries in the comparable 2008 period. The decrease in Space Transportation primarily was due to lower volume in commercial launch vehicle activities in 2009. There were no commercial launches during the nine month period of 2009 and one during the nine month period of 2008. S&DMS' sales decreased mainly due to lower volume on defensive missile programs, which more than offset growth in strategic missile programs.
10
Operating profit for Space Systems decreased by 3% for the quarter and 10% for the nine months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, declines in operating profit in Satellites and S&DMS partially were offset by growth in Space Transportation. Satellites' operating profit decreased primarily due to the absence of favorable 2008 performance adjustments on government satellite programs in 2009, which more than offset an increase associated with the 2009 commercial satellite delivery. S&DMS operating profit declined slightly between periods. In Space Transportation, the increase mainly was attributable to higher equity earnings on the United Launch Alliance joint venture and volume on the Orion program.
During the nine month period, operating profit declined in all three lines of business. Space Transportations operating profit decrease mainly was attributable to the absence in 2009 of a benefit recognized in 2008 from the successful negotiations of a terminated commercial launch vehicle contract and lower equity earnings in 2009 on the United Launch Alliance joint venture.  The decrease in S&DMS operating profit primarily was attributable to a reduction in the level of favorable performance adjustments in 2009 compared to 2008 on strategic missile programs.  In Satellites, the operating profit decrease mainly was due to lower volume in commercial satellite activities, which partially was offset by higher volume on government satellite activities.
 
Unallocated Corporate Income (Expense), Net
 
 
Consistent with the manner in which the Corporations business segment operating performance is evaluated by senior management, certain items are excluded from the business segment results and included in Unallocated corporate income (expense), net.  See the Corporations 2008 Form 10-K for a description of Unallocated corporate income (expense), net, including the FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
11
The FAS/CAS pension adjustment (calculated as the difference between FAS pension expense and the CAS cost amounts) resulted in an expense in 2009 compared to income in 2008 due to the negative actual return on plan assets in 2008 and a lower discount rate at Dec. 31, 2008. This trend is consistent with the Corporations previously disclosed assumptions used to compute these amounts.
For purposes of segment reporting, unusual items are included in Unallocated corporate income (expense), net:
 
2009 
In the third quarter, we resolved an IRS examination of our U.S. Federal Income Tax Returns for the years 2005-2007. As a result, we recognized an unusual tax benefit that reduced our income tax expense and increased our net earnings by $58 million ($0.15 per share) during the quarter and nine month periods of 2009.
 
2008 
 
12
 
Recognition of the deferred net gain increased net earnings by $28 million ($0.07 per share) during the third quarter of 2008. This item, along with the second quarter reserve reversal and the first quarter gain increased net earnings by $94 million ($0.23 per share) during the nine months ended Sept. 28, 2008.
Income Taxes
Our effective income tax rates were 25.7% and 29.2% for the quarter and nine months ended Sept. 27, 2009, and 31.6% and 32.2% for the quarter and nine months ended Sept. 28, 2008. These rates were lower than the statutory rate of 35% for all periods due to tax benefits for U.S. manufacturing activities and dividends related to our employee stock ownership plans. 
The effective tax rates for the third quarter and first nine months of 2009 were lower than the comparable periods in 2008, primarily due to the resolution of an IRS examination in the third quarter of 2009 that reduced income tax expense by $58 million and the extension of the research and development (R&D) credit as a result of the enactment on Oct. 3, 2008, of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) of 2008.  Although EESA retroactively extended the R&D credit for two years from Jan. 1, 2008 to Dec. 31, 2009, we did not recognize the benefit until EESA became law in the fourth quarter of 2008. In addition to these items, the effective tax rate for the nine month period of 2009 was affected by the partial elimination of a valuation allowance previously provided against certain foreign company deferred tax assets arising from carryforwards of unused tax benefits.
13
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security company that employs about 140,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. The Corporation reported 2008 sales of $42.7 billion.
 
Web site:
www.lockheedmartin.com
Conference call
:  Lockheed Martin will webcast the earnings conference
call (listen-only mode) at 11:00 a.m. E.D
.T. on
Oct. 20, 2009
.  A live audio broadcast, including relevant charts, will be available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at:
 
http://www.lockheedmartin.com/investor
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on Lockheed Martins current expectations and assumptions.  Forward-looking statements in this release include estimates of future sales, earnings and cash flow.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the availability of government funding for our products and services both domestically and internationally; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including changes to respond to the priorities of Congress and the Administration, budgetary constraints, and cost-cutting initiatives); the impact of economic recovery and stimulus plans and continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan on funding for existing defense programs; the award or termination of contracts; actual returns (or losses) on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may affect pension plan assumptions; the effect of capitalization changes (such as share repurchase activity, advance pension funding, option exercises, or debt levels) on earnings per share; difficulties in developing and producing operationally advanced technology systems; the timing and customer acceptance of product deliveries; materials availability and performance by key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; charges from any future impairment reviews that may result in the recognition of losses and a reduction in the book value of goodwill or other long-term assets; the future impact of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax, defense procurement, or export policies; the future impact of acquisitions or divestitures, joint ventures or teaming arrangements; the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including lawsuits, government investigations or audits, and environmental remediation efforts); the competitive environment for the Corporations products and services; and economic, business and political conditions domestically and internationally. 
 
14
 
These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this press release.  For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with Lockheed Martins business, please refer to the Corporations SEC filings, including the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and Legal Proceedings sections of the Corporations 2008 annual report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained at the Corporations website:
http://www.lockheedmartin.com
It is the Corporations policy to only update or reconfirm its financial projections by issuing a press release.  The Corporation generally plans to provide a forward-looking outlook as part of its quarterly earnings release but reserves the right to provide an outlook at different intervals or to revise its practice in future periods.  All information in this release is as of Oct. 19, 2009.  Lockheed Martin undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the Corporations expectations.  We also disclaim any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
NON-GAAP PERFORMANCE MEASURES
The Corporation believes that reporting ROIC provides investors with greater visibility into how effectively Lockheed Martin uses the capital invested in its operations.  The Corporation uses ROIC to evaluate multi-year investment decisions and as a long-term performance measure, and also uses ROIC as a factor in evaluating management performance for incentive compensation purposes.  ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner.  ROIC should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net earnings as an indicator of performance.
 
15
 
The Corporation calculates ROIC as follows:
Net earnings plus after-tax interest expense divided by average invested capital (stockholders equity plus debt), after adjusting stockholders equity by adding back adjustments related to postretirement benefit plans.
 
 
 
16
 
 
17
 
18
 
 
 
19
 
 
20
 
21
 
 
22
 
 
23
 
 
 
24

 
Christopher E. Kubasik Elected By Board Of Directors As Lockheed Martin's President And Chief Operating Officer
 
 
Bethesda, MD, October 15th, 2009 -- Lockheed Martin Corporation [NYSE: LMT] today announced that its Board of Directors has elected Christopher E. Kubasik to serve as president and chief operating officer, effective Jan. 1, 2010.
 
 
Re-establishing the position of president and COO, and electing Chris Kubasik to that role, will strengthen oversight of program performance across the Corporation and take operational excellence to an even higher level as we support our customers in their global security missions," said Chairman, President and CEO Bob Stevens. "Chris is a talented and respected leader. He has performed with excellence in a variety of jobs with a wide array of responsibilities. I'm confident that  working with our business area leaders and their teams  he will ensure the flawless performance our customers expect."
 
 
In the new organizational alignment, Lockheed Martins four business area executive vice presidents, the senior vice president of Operations and Program Management and the CIO and vice president of Enterprise Business Services will report to Kubasik. "This new structure puts our businesses, their more than 3,000 programs, and the institutional mechanisms for improvement under Chris's operational oversight," Stevens said. "It's a structure that will strengthen our company, reinforce our ability to support our customers most difficult global security challenges, and prepare us to achieve a bright future.
 
 
Stevens will continue as chairman and CEO and retain oversight of the remaining corporate staff functions. In addition to extending our commitment to program performance and operational excellence," he said, "this new structure will enable me to devote greater attention to high-level customers and partners and to shape domestic and international business strategies. I also intend to increase my efforts to strengthen the corporation strategically, operationally and financially."
 
 
Kubasiks successor as executive vice president of Electronic Systems will be named soon. "We have a number of strong internal candidates," said Stevens. "There will be no gap in leadership."
 
 
Currently, Kubasik serves as executive vice president of Lockheed Martin's Electronic Systems business area, with 2008 sales of $11.6 billion, a portfolio of more than 1,400 programs and customers in 43 nations. Prior to his appointment to that position in 2007, he was the corporations executive vice president and chief financial officer, responsible for financial strategies, processes and operations.
 
 
Kubasik received an Executive Engineering Certificate from Carnegie Mellon University in 2008 and has attended an Executive Program at Northwestern University's Kellogg School of Business. He also completed the Systems Acquisition Management Course for Flag Officers at the Defense Acquisition University, Fort Belvoir, Va. He received his bachelors degree (magna cum laude) from the University of Maryland in 1983.
 
 
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security company that employs about 140,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. The corporation reported 2008 sales of $42.7 billion.
 
 
Media Contact: Nettie Johnson, Vice President, Worldwide Media Relations, 301-897-6352; cell, 407-719-5982; e-mail,
nettie.r.johnson@lmco.com
 
 
For additional information, visit our Web site:
http://www.lockheedmartin.com
 
 
 
 
 


