FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20090721073449.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 21, 2009 Lockheed Martin Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 28, 2009. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form. Exhibit 99 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
 
       
- 2 -
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Act
 
July 21, 2009
- 3 - -
 
 
- 4 - -
 

Information
For Immediate Release
 
 
Summary Reported Results and Outlook
The following table presents the Corporations results for the periods referenced in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):
 
 
2
 
The following table and other sections of this press release contain forward-looking statements, which are based on the Corporations current expectations.  Actual results may differ materially from those projected.  See the Forward-Looking Statements discussion contained in this press release.
 
The Corporations updated outlook for 2009 diluted earnings per share incorporates the following revisions:
 
3
 
It is the Corporation's practice not to incorporate adjustments to its outlook for proposed acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, or other unusual activities until such transactions have been consummated.
Balanced Cash Deployment Strategy
The Corporation continued to execute its balanced cash deployment strategy during the second quarter by:
 
 
Segment Results
The Corporation operates in four principal business segments: Electronic Systems; Information Systems & Global Services (IS&GS); Aeronautics; and Space Systems.
 
4
 
The following table presents the operating results of the four business segments and reconciles these amounts to the Corporations consolidated financial results.
 
 
In our discussion of comparative results, changes in net sales and operating profit generally are expressed in terms of volume and/or performance.  Volume refers to increases (or decreases) in sales resulting from varying production activity levels, deliveries, or service levels on individual contracts.  Volume changes typically include a corresponding change in operating profit based on the estimated profit rate at completion for a particular contract for design, development, and production activities.  Performance generally refers to changes in contract profit booking rates.  These changes to our contracts for products usually relate to profit recognition associated with revisions to total estimated costs at completion of the contracts that reflect improved (or deteriorated) operating or award fee performance on a particular contract.  Changes in contract profit booking rates on contracts for products are recognized by recording adjustments in the current period for the inception-to-date effect of the changes on current and prior periods.  Recognition of the inception-to-date adjustment in the current or prior periods may affect the comparison of segment operating results.
 
5
Electronic Systems
 
 
Net sales for Electronic Systems decreased by 1% for the quarter and increased by 2% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. During the quarter, the decrease mainly was due to lower volume on air defense programs at Missiles & Fire Control (M&FC). This decrease partially was offset by growth in simulation and training activities at Platforms & Training (P&T) and in radar programs and surface naval warfare activities at Maritime Systems & Sensors (MS2).
During the first six months of the year, the increase mainly was due to higher volume on tactical missile programs and fire control systems at M&FC and in simulation and training activities at P&T. The increase in simulation and training also included sales from the first quarter 2009 acquisition of Universal Systems and Technology, Inc. These increases partially were offset by declines in integrated defense technology programs at MS2.
Operating profit for Electronic Systems decreased by 1% for the quarter and increased by 3% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. During the quarter, the decrease in operating profit mainly was due to lower volume on air defense programs at M&FC and the absence of favorable 2008 performance adjustments on integrated defense technology programs at MS2 in 2009. These decreases partially were offset by higher volume and improved performance in platform integration activities at P&T.
During the first six months of the year, the increase in operating profit primarily was attributable to improved performance on platform integration activities and the benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2009 from favorably resolving a simulation and training contract matter at P&T. These increases partially were offset by declines in volume on integrated defense technology programs at MS2.
6
Information Systems & Global Services
 
 
Net sales for IS&GS increased by 6% for the quarter and 8% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods. In both periods, increases in Defense and Civil partially were offset by declines in Intelligence. Defense sales increased due to higher volume on mission and combat systems activities and readiness and stability operations. Civil increased mainly due to higher volume on enterprise civilian services. Intelligence sales declined slightly between periods.
Operating profit for IS&GS decreased by 9% for the quarter and 2% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the second quarter, operating profit declines in Civil and Intelligence more than offset growth in Defense. The decrease in Civil primarily was attributable to the absence of a favorable 2008 performance adjustment on an enterprise civilian services program. The decrease in Intelligence was mainly due to lower volume and performance on security solutions activities. The increase in Defense mainly was due to volume and improved performance in mission and combat systems and readiness and stability operations.
During the first six months of the year, operating profit declines in Civil and Intelligence more than offset growth in Defense. The decrease in Civil primarily was attributable to the absence in 2009 of a benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2008 for a contract restructuring and the second quarter 2008 performance adjustment discussed above, both of which occurred on an enterprise civilian services program. The decrease in Intelligence was mainly due to lower volume and performance on enterprise integration activities. The increase in Defense mainly was due to volume and improved performance in mission and combat systems and readiness and stability operations.
The prior period amounts for IS&GS have been reclassified to conform to its current lines of business (Civil, Defense and Intelligence). The realignment had no impact on the segments operating results.
 
7
Aeronautics
 
 
Net sales for Aeronautics increased by 7% for the quarter and 3% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, the increase in Combat Aircraft sales partially was offset by declines in Air Mobility and Other Aeronautics Programs. The increase in Combat Aircraft mainly was due to higher volume on F-35 and F-16 programs. The decrease in Air Mobility mainly was attributable to lower volume on C-130J support and C-5 programs. The decrease in Other Aeronautics Programs principally was due to lower volume on sustainment activities, which partially was offset by growth on advanced development programs.
During the first six months of the year, sales increased in all three lines of business. The increase in Combat Aircraft mainly was due to higher volume on F-35 and F-16 programs, which more than offset lower volume on the F-22 program. The increase in Other Aeronautics Programs principally was due to growth on advanced development programs, which more than offset the lower volume on sustainment activities. Air Mobility sales increased slightly between periods.
 
Operating profit for Aeronautics increased by 9% for both the quarter and first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  In both periods, the growth in operating profit primarily was due to increases in Combat Aircraft and Air Mobility. The increase in Combat Aircraft operating profit primarily was due to higher volume and improved performance on the F-35 program and improved performance on the F-22 program. These increases more than offset declines in operating profit on F-16 programs mainly due to the absence of favorable 2008 performance adjustments in 2009. The increase in Air Mobility was mainly attributable to improved performance on C-130 support activities and C-5 programs.
 
8
Space Systems
 
Net sales for Space Systems decreased by 7% for the quarter and 3% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, declines in sales at Space Transportation and Satellites more than offset growth in Strategic & Defensive Missile Systems (S&DMS).  The decrease in Space Transportation primarily was due to lower volume in commercial launch vehicle activities and on the Orion program in 2009. There were no commercial launches during the first six months of 2009.   During the first six months of 2008, there was one commercial launch which occurred during the second quarter of the year.  The sales decline in Satellites was due to lower volume in commercial satellite activities, which more than offset higher volume in government satellite activities. There were no commercial satellite deliveries during the first six months of 2009.   In 2008, there was one commercial satellite delivery during the second quarter and two during the first six months of the year.  S&DMS sales increased mainly due to higher volume on strategic missile programs.
During the first six months of the year, declines in sales at Space Transportation and S&DMS more than offset growth in Satellites. The decrease in Space Transportation primarily was due to lower volume in commercial launch vehicle activities and on the Orion program in 2009. S&DMS sales decreased mainly due to lower volume on defensive missile programs, which more than offset growth in strategic missile programs. The sales growth in Satellites was due to higher volume in government satellite activities, which partially was offset by lower volume in commercial satellite activities.
Operating profit for Space Systems decreased by 16% for the quarter and 13% for the first six months of 2009 from the comparable 2008 periods.  During the quarter, Satellites operating profit decreased primarily due to the decline in commercial deliveries, which more than offset increases associated with the higher volume on government satellite activities. In Space Transportation the decrease mainly was attributable to volume on the Orion program and volume and performance on the space shuttles external tank program. The decrease in S&DMS primarily was attributable to lower volume on defensive missile programs.
 
9
 
During the first six months of the year, Space Transportations operating profit decrease mainly was attributable to lower equity earnings on the United Launch Alliance joint venture and the absence in 2009 of a benefit recognized in 2008 from the successful negotiations of a terminated commercial launch vehicle contract.  The decrease in S&DMS operating profit primarily was attributable to lower volume on defensive missile programs.  In Satellites, the operating profit increase mainly was due to higher volume and improved performance on government satellite activities, which was partially offset by lower volume in commercial satellite activities.
Unallocated Corporate Income (Expense), Net
Consistent with the manner in which the Corporations business segment operating performance is evaluated by senior management, certain items are excluded from the business segment results and included in Unallocated corporate income (expense), net.  See the Corporations 2008 Form 10-K for a description of Unallocated corporate income (expense), net, including the FAS/CAS pension adjustment.
The FAS/CAS pension adjustment (calculated as the difference between FAS 87 expense and the CAS cost amounts) resulted in an expense in 2009 compared to income in 2008 due to the negative actual return on plan assets in 2008 and a lower discount rate at December 31, 2008.  This trend is consistent with the Corporations previously disclosed assumptions used to compute these amounts.
10
 
For purposes of segment reporting, unusual items are included in Unallocated corporate income (expense), net:
2009 
2008 
These items increased 2008 net earnings by $66 million ($0.16 per share) during the first six months of 2008.
Income Taxes
Our effective income tax rates were 30.4% and 31.1% for the quarter and six months ended June 28, 2009 and 32.4% and 32.5% for the quarter and six months ended June 29, 2008.   These rates were lower than the statutory rate of 35% for all periods due to tax benefits for U.S. manufacturing activities and dividends related to our employee stock ownership plans.   The effective tax rates for the second quarter and first six months of 2009 are lower than the comparable periods in 2008, primarily due to the partial elimination of a valuation allowance previously provided against certain foreign company deferred tax assets arising from carryforwards of unused tax benefits and the extension of the research and development (R&D) credit as a result of the enactment on October 3, 2008, of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act (EESA) of 2008.  Although EESA retroactively extended the R&D credit for two years from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2009, we did not recognize the benefit until EESA became law in the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
11
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security company that employs about 146,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. The Corporation reported 2008 sales of $42.7 billion.
 
Web site:
www.lockheedmartin.com
Conference call
:  Lockheed Martin will webcast the earnings conference
call (listen-only mode) at 11:00 a.m. E.D
.T. on
July 21, 2009
.  A live audio broadcast, including relevant charts, will be available on the Investor Relations page of the companys web site at:
http://www.lockheedmartin.com/investor
.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on Lockheed Martins current expectations and assumptions.  Forward-looking statements in this release include estimates of future sales, earnings and cash flow.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties.  Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as: the availability of government funding for our products and services both domestically and internationally; changes in government and customer priorities and requirements (including changes to respond to the priorities of Congress and the Administration, budgetary constraints, and cost-cutting initiatives); the impact of economic recovery and stimulus plans and continued military operations in Iraq and Afghanistan on funding for existing defense programs; the award or termination of contracts; actual returns (or losses) on pension plan assets, interest and discount rates and other changes that may impact pension plan assumptions; changes in counter-party credit risk exposure; difficulties in developing and producing operationally advanced technology systems; the timing and customer acceptance of product deliveries; materials availability and performance by key suppliers, subcontractors and customers; charges from any future impairment reviews that may result in the recognition of losses and a reduction in the book value of goodwill or other long-term assets; the future impact of legislation, rulemaking, and changes in accounting, tax, defense procurement, or export policies; the future impact of acquisitions or divestitures, joint ventures or teaming arrangements; the outcome of legal proceedings and other contingencies (including lawsuits, government investigations or audits, and environmental remediation efforts); the competitive environment for the Corporations products and services; and economic, business and political conditions domestically and internationally.
12
These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this press release.  For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with Lockheed Martins business, please refer to the Corporations SEC filings, including the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and Legal Proceedings sections of the Corporations 2008 annual report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained at the Corporations website:
http://www.lockheedmartin.com
It is the Corporations policy to only update or reconfirm its financial projections by issuing a press release.  The Corporation generally plans to provide a forward-looking outlook as part of its quarterly earnings release but reserves the right to provide an outlook at different intervals or to revise its practice in future periods.  All information in this release is as of July 20, 2009.  Lockheed Martin undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the Corporations expectations.  We also disclaim any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
NON-GAAP PERFORMANCE MEASURES
The Corporation believes that reporting ROIC provides investors with greater visibility into how effectively Lockheed Martin uses the capital invested in its operations.  The Corporation uses ROIC to evaluate multi-year investment decisions and as a long-term performance measure, and also uses ROIC as a factor in evaluating management performance for incentive compensation purposes.  ROIC is not a measure of financial performance under generally accepted accounting principles, and may not be defined and calculated by other companies in the same manner.  ROIC should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net earnings as an indicator of performance.
13
The Corporation calculates ROIC as follows:
Net earnings plus after-tax interest expense divided by average invested capital (stockholders equity plus debt), after adjusting stockholders equity by adding back adjustments related to postretirement benefit plans.
 
 
 
14
 
 
15
 
 
16
 
 
 
17
 
 
18
 
 
19
 
 
 
20
 
 
21
 
 
 
 
22


