FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20090427160703.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As disclosed in Item 8.01 below, the Corporation's stockholders approved a proposal to amend the Corporation's charter to delete the 80% supermajority vote requirement for amendment of Article XIII. A description of the amendment to the Charter is set forth on pages 67 to 68 of the Corporation's definitive proxy statement for the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed on Schedule 14A with the SEC on March 13, 2009. The articles of amendment to the charter became effective upon filing of the articles of amendment on April 24, 2009 with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of the State of Maryland.
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation held its Annual Meeting of Stockholders on April 23, 2009. Of the 394,181,463 shares outstanding and entitled to vote, 359,506,045 shares were represented at the meeting, or a 91.20% quorum. During the meeting, the stockholders voted on the following matters and:
Proposal 1  Election of Directors
 
 
 
Proposal 2  Ratification of Appointment of Independent Auditors
 
Proposal 3  To Amend the Charter to Delete the 80% Supermajority Vote Requirement for Amendment of Article XIII
 
Proposal 4  Stockholder Proposal by The Sisters of Mercy of the Americas, Regional Community of Detroit Charitable Trust and Other Groups
 
Proposal 5  Stockholder Proposal by The City of Philadelphia Public Employees Retirement System and the Miami Fire Fighters' Relief and Pension Fund
 
Proposal 6  Stockholder Proposal by John Chevedden
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION
/s/ David A. Dedman
David A. Dedman
Vice President and Associate General Counsel
April 27, 2009
 

Exhibit 3.1
Lockheed Martin Corporation, a Maryland corporation (the "Corporation"), certifies as follows:
: The Charter of the Corporation is hereby amended by deleting Article XIII, Section 6 in its entirety, which prior to this amendment read as follows:
FIRST
"SECTION 6. Notwithstanding any other provisions of the Charter (and notwithstanding the fact that a lesser percentage may be specified by law, the Charter, or the Bylaws of the Corporation), the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding Voting Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be required to amend or repeal, or adopt any provisions inconsistent with, this Article XIII."
: This amendment was advised by the Board of Directors and approved by the stockholders of the Corporation as required by law.
SECOND
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused these Articles of Amendment to be signed in its name and on its behalf on this 23rd day of April 2009, by its Senior Vice President and General Counsel who acknowledges that these Articles of Amendment are the act of the Corporation and that to the best of his knowledge, information and belief and under penalties for perjury, all matters and facts contained in these Articles of Amendment and required to be verified under oath are true in all material respects.
 


