FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20100630190443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 24, 2010, Lockheed Martin Corporation announced that its Board of Directors elected Thomas J. Falk, 52, to serve as a director of the Corporation effective June 25, 2010. Mr. Falk also will serve as a member of the Audit Committee and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee.
Mr. Falk has served as Chief Executive Officer of Kimberly-Clark Corporation since 2002 and as its Chairman since 2003. Earlier in his 27-year career at Kimberly-Clark, Mr. Falk held various finance, strategy and management positions. Before joining Kimberly-Clark in 1983, Mr. Falk was with the accounting firm of Alexander Grant & Co.
 
On June 24, 2010, Lockheed Martin also announced that its Board of Directors elected Maryanne R. Lavan, 51, to serve as Senior Vice President and General Counsel. Ms. Lavan previously served as Lockheed Martin's Vice President of Internal Audit since 2007 and succeeds James B. Comey whose departure from the company was announced previously.
Ms. Lavan also has served as the Corporation's Vice President of Ethics and Business Conduct, as Vice President and General Counsel for Lockheed Martin's Electronic Systems business area, and as an Assistant General Counsel. Before joining Lockheed Martin in 1990, Ms. Lavan worked for a law firm in Washington, D.C., where her practice focused on government contracts and white-collar crime matters.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
June 30, 2010
 


