FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20100510093534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 10, 2010, Lockheed Martin Corporation issued a press release announcing early results of its offer to exchange any and all of its outstanding 7.65% Debentures due 2016, 7.75% Debentures due 2026, 8.50% Debentures due 2029 and 7.20% Debentures due 2036 (collectively, the "old notes") for a new series of 5.72% notes due 2040 (the "new notes") and, in the case of the 7.20% Debentures due 2036, an additional cash payment (the "exchange offer"). Lockheed Martin Corporation also announced that the amount of outstanding old notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on May 7, 2010 (the "early participation date") exceeded the minimum condition of the exchange offer. Lockheed Martin further announced that holders of old notes that tender their old notes after the early participation date and prior to the expiration of the exchange offer will also receive the same total exchange consideration (including the early participation payment) for the series of old notes tendered as will be received by holders of old notes that tendered the same series of old notes by the early participation date. A copy of the press release is filed as exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The new notes have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws. Therefore, the new notes may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and any applicable state securities laws.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
May 10, 2010

Exhibit 99
For Immediate Release
Md., May 10, 2010  Lockheed Martin Corporation (NYSE: LMT) today announced early results of its offer to exchange any and all of its outstanding debt securities listed in the table below (the "old notes") for a new series of 5.72% notes due 2040 (the "new notes") and, in the case of the 7.20% Debentures due 2036, an additional cash amount (the "exchange offer"). The approximate principal amounts of each series of old notes that have been validly tendered for exchange, as of 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on May 7, 2010 (the "early participation date"), based on information provided by the exchange agent to Lockheed Martin, are presented in the table below. These tendered old notes may not be withdrawn. The amount of outstanding old notes validly tendered and not validly withdrawn as of the early participation date, as reflected in the table below, exceeded the minimum condition of the exchange offer.
BETHESDA,
 
Lockheed Martin also announced today that holders of old notes that validly tender their old notes after the early participation date and prior to the expiration of the exchange offer will also receive the same total exchange consideration (including the early participation payment) for the series of old notes tendered as will be received by holders of old notes that validly tendered the same series of old notes by the early participation date. Tenders submitted in the exchange offer after the early participation date of the exchange offer will be irrevocable except in the limited circumstances required by law (as determined by Lockheed Martin).
The exchange offer is only made, and copies of the offering documents will only be made available, to holders of the old notes who have certified to Lockheed Martin in an eligibility letter as to certain matters, including (1) their status as "qualified institutional buyers" as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), or (2) outside the United States, their status as non-U.S. persons as defined in Regulation S under the Securities Act. The exchange offer is scheduled to expire at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, at the end of the day on May 21, 2010, unless extended.
The new notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. Therefore, the new notes may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws.
:
Investor Contact
Jerry Kircher, Vice President, Investor Relations, 301-897-6584; email, jerry.f.kircher@lmco.com
Shamala N. Littlefield, Director, Investor Relations, 301-897-6455; email, shamala.littlefield@lmco.com
:
Media Contact
Jeff Adams, 301-897-6308; email, jeffery.adams@lmco.com
This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. The exchange offer is being made solely by the offering memorandum and related letter of transmittal and only to such persons and in such jurisdictions as is permitted under applicable law.


