FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20120724073706.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)  July 24, 2012
 
 
LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
 
(301) 897-6000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
 
Not Applicable
(Former name or address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 24, 2012, Lockheed Martin Corporation announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 24, 2012. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 to this Form. Exhibit 99 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
  
July 24, 2012
 
 

 
 
News Release
For Immediate Release
 
LOCKHEED MARTIN ANNOUNCES SECOND QUARTER 2012 RESULTS
 
 
BETHESDA, Md., July 24, 2012  Lockheed Martin Corporation (NYSE: LMT) today reported second quarter 2012 net sales of $11.9 billion compared to $11.5 billion in 2011. Net earnings from continuing operations for the second quarter of 2012 were $781 million, or $2.38 per diluted share, compared to $748 million, or $2.16 per diluted share, in 2011. Cash from operations during the second quarter of 2012 was $845 million, after pension contributions of $607 million, compared to cash from operations of $894 million during the second quarter of 2011, after pension contributions of $325 million.
 
Consistent with prior periods, the second quarter of 2012 included a non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $208 million which reduced net earnings by $128 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, compared to a non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $230 million which reduced net earnings by $142 million, or $0.41 per diluted share, in 2011. The second quarter of 2011 also included special charges of $97 million related to workforce reductions at the Corporations Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments, and a tax benefit of $89 million from the resolution of certain tax matters, when combined, increased net earnings from continuing operations by $26 million, or $0.08 per diluted share.
 
Our solid performance in the second quarter is a result of our responsive strategy and dedicated team that focus on delivering value to our customers and shareholders, said Bob Stevens, Lockheed Martin chairman and chief executive officer.  While the threat of sequestration has created uncertainty for our industry, we are maintaining an unwavering commitment to program execution and cost reduction throughout the organization.
 
 
Summary Reported Results
 
The following table presents the Corporations results for the periods referenced in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP):
 
 
 
2012 Financial Outlook
 
The following table and other sections of this press release contain forward-looking statements, which are based on the Corporations current expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected. It is the Corporation's practice not to incorporate adjustments into its outlook for proposed acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, changes in tax laws, or special items until such transactions have been consummated or enacted. See the Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements discussion contained in this press release.
 
  
 
Cash Deployment Activities
 
The Corporation deployed cash in 2012 by:
 
 
 
Segment Results
 
The Corporation operates in four business segments: Aeronautics; Electronic Systems; Information Systems & Global Solutions (IS&GS); and Space Systems. Operating profit for the business segments includes equity earnings (losses) from their investments because the operating activities of the investees are closely aligned with the operations of those segments. The Corporations equity investments primarily include United Launch Alliance (ULA) and United Space Alliance (USA), both of which are part of Space Systems.
 
 
The following table presents the operating results of the four business segments and reconciles these amounts to the Corporations consolidated financial results.
 
 
In the discussion of comparative segment results, changes in net sales and operating profit generally are expressed in terms of volume. Changes in volume refer to increases or decreases in sales resulting from varying production activity levels, deliveries, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes typically include a corresponding change in segment operating profit based on the current profit booking rate for a particular contract.
 
In addition, comparability of the Corporations operating profit may be impacted by changes in estimated profit booking rates. Increases in the estimated profit booking rates on the Corporations contracts accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, typically referred to as risk retirements, usually relate to revisions in the total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved conditions on a particular contract. Conversely, conditions on a particular contract may deteriorate resulting in an increase in the estimated costs at completion and a reduction of the estimated profit booking rate. Increases or decreases in estimated profit booking rates are recognized in the current period and reflect the
 
 
inception-to-date effect of such changes. Segment operating profit may also be impacted, favorably or unfavorably, by matters that are not accounted for using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting, such as the resolution of contractual matters, reserves for disputes, asset impairments and insurance recoveries, among others. Segment operating profit and items such as risk retirements, reductions of profit booking rates, or other matters are presented net of state income taxes.
 
The Corporations net adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments and the resolution of contractual matters, increased segment operating profit by approximately 40 percent and 39 percent of total segment operating profit for the second quarter and first six months of 2012, respectively, and approximately 31 percent and 30 percent of total segment operating profit for the second quarter and first six months of 2011, respectively.
  
Aeronautics
 
 
Net sales in the Aeronautics business segment increased $18 million, or 1 percent, during the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher net sales of approximately $200 million from increased production volume on F-35 Low Rate Initial Production (LRIP) contracts after considering the effect of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers strike which was settled on June 28, 2012; and about $130 million from F-16 programs primarily as a result of increased aircraft deliveries (10 F-16 aircraft delivered in the second quarter of 2012 compared to seven in the same 2011 period); while sales from C-130 programs remained comparable. Partially offsetting the increases were lower net sales of approximately $140 million from the F-35 development contract principally due to the inception-to-date effect of reducing the profit booking rate and to a lesser extent lower volume; about $115 million primarily due to a decrease in C-5M aircraft deliveries (no C-5M aircraft delivered in the second quarter of 2012 compared to one in the same 2011 period); approximately $40 million from the F-22 program due principally to decreased production as final aircraft deliveries were completed in the second quarter of 2012, partially offset by the resolution of a contractual matter; and about $20 million principally due to lower volume on other sustainment activities.
 
Net sales in the Aeronautics business segment increased $572 million, or 9 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher net sales of approximately $460 million from increased production volume on F-35 LRIP contracts after considering the effect of the strike; about $345 million from F-16 programs primarily as a result of increased aircraft deliveries (23 F-16 aircraft delivered in the first six months of 2012 compared to 12 in the same 2011 period) and to a lesser extent F-16 sustainment activities; and approximately $240 million principally due to increased C-130J aircraft deliveries (17 C-130J aircraft delivered in the first six months of 2012 compared to 13 in the same 2011 period); while sales from C-5 programs remained comparable. Partially offsetting these increases were lower net sales of about $215 million from the F-22 production program described in the preceding paragraph; approximately $170 million from the F-35 development contract due to the inception-to-date effect of reducing the profit booking rate and decreased volume; and about $85 million principally due to lower volume on other sustainment activities.
 
Operating profit in the Aeronautics business segment increased $57 million, or 14 percent, during the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $80 million from C-130 programs principally due to risk retirements on international production contracts; about $50 million from the resolution of a contractual matter on the F-22 production program; approximately $20 million due to risk retirements on F-35 LRIP contracts; and about $20 million from F-16 programs driven by increased aircraft deliveries. Operating profit from C-5 programs was comparable as the decline in profit from aircraft deliveries was largely offset by risk retirements on C-5 sustainment activities. Partially offsetting the increases were lower operating profit of approximately $85 million from the F-35 development contract principally due to the inception-to-date effect of reducing the profit booking rate to reflect lower estimated incentive fees on the contract; and about $25 million principally from lower profit booking rate adjustments on other sustainment activities. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments and the resolution of the contractual matter described above, were approximately $35 million higher in the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
  
Operating profit in the Aeronautics business segment increased $114 million, or 16 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $100 million from C-130 programs due to risk retirements on international production contracts, increased aircraft deliveries, and higher volume on sustainment activities; about $50 million from F-16 programs driven by increased aircraft deliveries; approximately $35 million
 
 
from F-35 LRIP contracts due to increased risk retirements and production; about $20 million from C-5 programs due to increased risk retirements; and approximately $15 million from the F-22 production program principally including the $50 million resolution of the contractual matter partially offset by lower volume and risk retirements. Partially offsetting these increases were lower operating profit of about $85 million from the F-35 development contract principally due to the inception-to-date effect of reducing the profit booking rate; and about $20 million principally from lower profit booking rate adjustments on other sustainment activities. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments and the resolution of the contractual matter described above, were approximately the same in the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
 
Electronic Systems
 
 
Net sales in the Electronic Systems business segment increased $86 million, or 2 percent, during the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher volume and risk retirements of approximately $245 million from ship and aviation programs (Persistent Threat Detection System (PTDS), Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), MH-60) and about $65 million from tactical missile programs (Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Javelin). Partially offsetting these increases were lower net sales due to decreased volume on various programs including approximately $100 million from air defense programs (Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3), Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD)); about $45 million from numerous programs, primarily training and logistics programs; approximately $40 million from fire control systems programs (Sniper, Target Acquisition Designation Sight/Pilot Night Vision Sensor (TADS/PNVS)); and about $40 million from integrated warfare systems and sensors programs (Aegis, DDG-1000).
 
Net sales in the Electronic Systems business segment increased $213 million, or 3 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher volume and risk retirements of approximately $425 million from ship and aviation programs (PTDS, LCS, MH-60); and about $95 million from tactical missiles programs (Javelin). Partially offsetting the
 
increase were lower net sales due to decreased volume of approximately $85 million from fire control systems programs (Sniper, TADS/PNVS); about $50 million from air defense programs (PAC-3, THAAD); approximately $60 million from integrated warfare systems and sensors programs (DDG-1000, Medium Extended Air Defense System); and about $110 million from various other programs, primarily training and logistics programs.
 
Operating profit in the Electronic Systems business segment increased $48 million, or 10 percent, during the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $60 million from ship and aviation programs (PTDS, Vertical Launching System (VLS)) as a result of increased risk retirements; approximately $20 million from tactical missile programs (MLRS) as a result of increased risk retirements; and about $50 million from the resolution of contractual matters. Partially offsetting these increases was lower operating profit of about $15 million from air defense programs (PAC-3, THAAD) due to decreased volume; and over $50 million from reducing profit booking rates on certain programs, including training and logistics programs, and a net increase in various costs, including severance. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments and the resolution of contractual matters described above, were approximately $90 million higher in the second quarter of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
 
Operating profit in the Electronic Systems business segment increased $157 million, or 17 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011. The increase was attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $135 million from ship and aviation programs (PTDS, VLS) as a result of increased risk retirements; about $70 million from tactical missiles programs (MLRS) due to increased risk retirements and volume; approximately $25 million from fire control systems programs as a result of increased risk retirements and volume; and about $50 million from the resolution of contractual matters. Partially offsetting these increases was lower operating profit of about $20 million for reserves on certain integrated warfare systems and sensors programs; and approximately $105 million from reducing profit booking rates on certain programs, including training and logistics programs, and a net increase in various costs, including severance. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments and the resolution of contractual matters described above, were approximately $235 million higher in the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
 
 
Information Systems & Global Solutions
 
 
Net sales in the IS&GS business segment decreased $98 million, or 4 percent, during the second quarter and $157 million, or 3 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding periods in 2011. The decreases in both periods were attributable to lower net sales of approximately $55 million during the second quarter and $120 million during the first six months due to cessation of the Airborne Maritime Fixed Station Joint Tactical Radio System program; about $40 million during the second quarter and $55 million during the first six months from the completion of the U.K. Census program in the fourth quarter of 2011; and approximately $35 million during the second quarter and $60 million during the first six months from the completion of the Outsourcing Desktop Initiative program for NASA. Partially offsetting the decreases were higher net sales as a result of increased activity on numerous programs, including net sales from an acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 
The declines in operating profit in the IS&GS business segment during the second quarter and first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding periods in 2011 were attributable to lower net sales. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments, were about the same in the second quarter of 2012 as compared to 2011, and approximately $40 million higher in the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding period in 2011.
 
 
Space Systems
 
 
Net sales in the Space Systems business segment increased $372 million, or 18 percent, during the second quarter and $417 million, or 11 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding periods in 2011. The increases in both periods were attributable to higher net sales as a result of increased commercial satellite deliveries of approximately $285 million during both the second quarter and first six months (two deliveries in the second quarter and first six months of 2012 compared to none in the same 2011 periods); about $70 million during the second quarter and $130 million during the first six months due to increased production volume and risk retirements on the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle program (Orion); and approximately $45 million during the second quarter and $50 million during the first six months due to increased volume on various strategic and defensive missile systems programs. Partially offsetting these increases were lower net sales of about $15 million during the second quarter and $35 million during the first six months from the NASA External Tank program, which ended in connection with the completion of the Space Shuttle program in the second quarter of 2011.
 
Operating profit in the Space Systems business segment increased $19 million, or 7 percent, during the second quarter and $28 million, or 6 percent, during the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding periods in 2011. The increases in both periods were attributable to higher operating profit of approximately $45 million during the second quarter and $55 million during the first six months due to increased commercial satellite deliveries and risk retirements; and about $35 million during the second quarter and $40 million during the first six months primarily due to increased risk retirements on the Orion program. Partially offsetting these increases were lower equity earnings of $70 million during the second quarter and $80 million during the first six months of 2012. Adjustments not related to volume, including net profit rate adjustments described above, were approximately $35 million higher in the second quarter and $40 million higher in the first six months of 2012 as compared to the corresponding periods in 2011.
 
Total equity earnings recognized by the Space Systems business segment from ULA and USA represented about $10 million, or 4 percent, and approximately $50 million, or 10 percent, of this segments operating
 
profit during the second quarter and first six months of 2012, respectively.  The level of equity earnings are expected to trend higher during the second half of 2012 as compared to the first half of 2012. During the second quarter and first six months of 2011, total equity earnings recognized by the Space Systems business segment from ULA and USA represented about $80 million, or 30 percent, and approximately $130 million, or 27 percent, respectively of this segments operating profit. 
  
Income Taxes
 
The Corporations effective income tax rates from continuing operations were 30.1 percent and 29.9 percent during the second quarter and first six months of 2012, respectively, and 18.5 percent and 24.0 percent during the second quarter and first six months of 2011. The rates for all periods benefited from tax deductions for U.S. manufacturing activities and dividends paid to certain defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature. The effective income tax rates for the second quarter and first six months of 2011 also included the U.S. research and development tax credit that expired on Dec. 31, 2011. This benefit will not be incorporated into the Corporations 2012 outlook unless new legislation is enacted. In addition, the effective income tax rates for the second quarter and first six months of 2011 included a reduction to income tax expense of $89 million ($0.26 per diluted share for the second quarter and $0.25 per diluted share for the first six months) through the elimination of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits as a result of the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation completing its review of the IRS Appeals Divisions resolution of adjustments related to tax years 2003 through 2008.
 
 
About Lockheed Martin
 
Headquartered in Bethesda, Md., Lockheed Martin is a global security and aerospace company that employs about 120,000 people worldwide and is principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration and sustainment of advanced technology systems, products and services. The Corporations net sales for 2011 were $46.5 billion.
 
###
 
 
Web site:
www.lockheedmartin.com
 
Conference Call Information
 
: Lockheed Martin will webcast the earnings conference call (listen-only mode) at 11:00 a.m. E.T. on July 24, 2012. A live audio broadcast, including relevant charts, will be available on the Investor Relations page of the Corporations web site at: .
Conference call
http://www.lockheedmartin.com/investor
 
Disclosure Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this release that are "forward-looking statements" are based on Lockheed Martins current expectations and assumptions.  Forward-looking statements in this release include estimates of future sales, earnings, and cash flows.  These statements are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially due to factors such as:
 
 
 
 
These are only some of the factors that may affect the forward-looking statements contained in this press release. For further information regarding risks and uncertainties associated with Lockheed Martins business, please refer to the Corporations SEC filings, including the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Risk Factors, and Legal Proceedings sections of the Corporations 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which may be obtained at the Corporations website: .
http://www.lockheedmartin.com
 
It is the Corporations policy to update or reconfirm its financial projections only by issuing a press release.  The Corporation generally plans to provide a forward-looking outlook as part of its quarterly earnings release but reserves the right to provide an outlook at different intervals or to revise its practice in future periods. All information in this release is as of July 23, 2012.  Lockheed Martin undertakes no duty to update any forward-looking statement to reflect subsequent events, actual results or changes in the Corporations expectations. The Corporation also disclaims any duty to comment upon or correct information that may be contained in reports published by investment analysts or others.
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Earnings
1
(unaudited; in millions, except per share data)
 
 
 
  
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Business Segment Net Sales, Operating Profit, and Operating Margins
(unaudited; in millions)
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Selected Financial Data
(unaudited; in millions)
 
  
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(unaudited; in millions, except par value)
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(unaudited; in millions)
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity
(unaudited; in millions)
 
  
 
 
 
 
Lockheed Martin Corporation
Operating Data
(unaudited)
 
 
 


