FILE:LMT/LMT-8K-20121127170339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
The Corporation previously disclosed that the Board of Directors had elected Marillyn A. Hewson to serve as the Corporation's President and Chief Operating Officer, effective November 9, 2012. The Board also elected Ms. Hewson as Chief Executive Officer and President effective January 1, 2013.
On November 20, 2012, following the recommendation of the Management Development and Compensation Committee ("Compensation Committee"), the Board of Directors approved an increase in Ms. Hewson's annual base salary from $700,000 to $1,100,000 and an increase in her target bonus percentage for an annual bonus under the Management Incentive Compensation Plan ("MICP") from 90% to 125%. Both changes are effective retroactive to November 9, 2012. The change in her MICP target applies only to the period during 2012 in which she serves as President and Chief Operating Officer. As a result, any MICP bonus awarded to her by the Board of Directors for 2012 service will be pro-rated, so that approximately ten months will be based on her prior target rate of 90% and approximately two months will be based on the new target rate of 125%. Consistent with the MICP plan terms, her bonus for 2012 will be calculated using the base salary in effect on December 1, 2012.
The Compensation Committee recommended and the Board approved the compensation changes in recognition of Ms. Hewson's promotion to President and Chief Operating Officer. The new base salary and target bonus percentage are at the same level as previously approved for Christopher E. Kubasik, the former President and Chief Operating Officer.
On November 20, 2012, following the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board also approved a second increase in Ms. Hewson's base salary to $1,375,000 and an amendment of the MICP plan to designate a target bonus percentage of 175% for the position of Chief Executive Officer ("CEO") to be effective January 1, 2013, the date on which Ms. Hewson will become CEO and President. The Compensation Committee based its decision for her 2013 compensation on its pay philosophy that a newly promoted executive should be paid a base salary equal to 85% of the market rate for base salary (with market being the 50
th
percentile for comparable positions in our Comparator Group) and a MICP target equal to 100% of the market (or 50
th
percentile target percentage within our Comparator Group).
In her new positions, Ms. Hewson will be required to use a corporate jet for business and personal use and the Corporation will provide personal security (and a related tax gross-up) based on assessed risk to Ms. Hewson.
The Lockheed Martin Corporation 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan (Performance-Based) as amended effective January 1, 2013 is appended as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
During 2012, the Corporation disclosed that Mr. Stevens intended to step down at the end of the year as Chief Executive Officer but had indicated a willingness, subject to
 
election by the Board of Directors and our stockholders, to remain Chairman of the Board through December 31, 2013. Following the resignation of Mr. Kubasik, who had been slated to become CEO at the beginning of 2013, the Board of Directors elected Mr. Stevens to serve as Executive Chairman, effective January 1, 2013. In addition, Mr. Stevens has agreed to remain an employee of the Corporation in the position of Strategic Advisor to the CEO through February 28, 2014, also reflecting an expansion of the transition role originally contemplated for him as an employee.
As Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Stevens will continue to lead the Board of Directors in its governance and oversight responsibilities with regard to the Corporation. Consistent with its historic policy of not providing board compensation to employee directors, Mr. Stevens will not receive director or chairman compensation for his services as Executive Chairman of the Board.
As Strategic Advisor to the CEO, Mr. Stevens will:
 
 
 
 
 
Following the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, on November 20, 2012, the Board approved a Transition Agreement pursuant to which Mr. Stevens will receive the following compensation for his services as Strategic Advisor to the CEO in 2013:
 
 
 
 
It is anticipated that the transition will be substantially completed in 2013 and that Mr. Stevens will play a more limited role in 2014. For January and February 2014, Mr. Stevens will receive for his services as Strategic Advisor:
 
 
 
Mr. Stevens will not receive for his services in 2013 or 2014 any equity or LTIP grants in 2013 or 2014. Through February 28, 2014, he will continue to earn and vest in equity and LTIP grants made to him prior to December 31, 2012. In lieu of receiving equity grants for his service in 2013, the Corporation will pay him $2 million, contingent upon execution of a non-competition agreement pursuant to which Mr. Stevens will agree that, for the three-year period starting on the date of his retirement as Strategic Advisor, he will not accept employment from companies that the Corporation designates as competitors or interfere with, disrupt, or attempt to disrupt the relationship, contractual or otherwise, between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, or employee. The contemplated non-competition agreement will be for a longer period and apply to more companies than Mr. Stevens' existing non-competition agreements.
Through December 31, 2014, Mr. Stevens will be eligible for an executive physical, office equipment, connectivity, technical and administrative support, and business and professional subscriptions. The Compensation Committee will re-evaluate on an annual basis any continuation of these items after December 31, 2014. Mr. Stevens also will be authorized through December 31, 2014 to use a corporate jet for business and personal use. The Corporation also will provide Mr. Stevens with personal security through December 31, 2014 and thereafter based upon an assessment of the degree to which Mr. Stevens continues to be associated with the Corporation and the level of risk. To the extent that the personal security is taxable, the Corporation will provide a tax gross-up sufficient to make Mr. Stevens whole.
In determining the compensation for Mr. Stevens' service as Strategic Advisor for 2013 and 2014, the Compensation Committee considered a variety of factors and input from its independent consultant and concluded the level of compensation was appropriate. In particular, the Compensation Committee considered that:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by the terms and conditions set forth in the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan (Performance-Based) as amended effective January 1, 2013, a copy of which is appended as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference and in the Transition Agreement, a copy of which is appended as Exhibit 99.2 to this report and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
November 27, 2012
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
This Plan is established to provide a further incentive to selected Employees to promote the success of Lockheed Martin Corporation by providing an opportunity to receive additional compensation for performance measured against individual and business unit goals. The Plan is intended to achieve the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Those Employees who through their efforts are able to contribute significantly to the success of the Company in any given Plan Year will be considered eligible for selection for participation in the Plan with respect to that Plan Year. Participants are selected each Plan Year based on recommendations by the Required Approver, subject to the approval of the Chief Executive Officer. Those eligible shall include only those Employees considered by the Committee to be key Employees of the Company. No member of the Committee shall be eligible for participation in the Plan.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors may delegate its authority to make determinations under this Section to the Committee.
The Plan shall be administered under the direction of the Committee. The Committee shall have the right to construe the Plan, to interpret any provision thereof, to make rules and regulations relating to the Plan, and to determine any factual question arising in connection with the Plan's operation after such investigation or hearing as the Committee may deem appropriate. Any decision made by the Committee under the provisions of this Article shall be conclusive and binding on all parties concerned. The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose. The rights and obligations of the Committee under this Article VI shall be assumed by the Subcommittee in the case of Participants subject to Exhibit B.
The Board of Directors shall have the right to terminate or amend this Plan at any time and to discontinue further appropriations thereto, provided that such termination or amendment shall not be made in a manner that would cause a Participant to include Incentive Compensation in gross income pursuant to Code Section 409A.
 
The Plan shall first be effective with respect to the operations of the Company for the Plan Year beginning January 1, 2006, contingent upon approval of Exhibit B by the Company's stockholders at its 2006 annual meeting. The Plan has been amended by the Management Development and Compensation Committee on November 20, 2012, to be effective January 1, 2013.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Any deviation from the six (6) month minimum is subject to approval by the Required Approver and the Corporate Salary Board.
 
 
 
 
Any deviation is subject to approval by the Required Approver and/or the Corporate Salary Board as appropriate.
 
 
Target Levels are based on the level of importance and responsibility of the position in the organization as determined by the Business Area Executive Vice President and/or major corporate function head subject to approval by the Executive Office.
 
 
Individual performance factors are normally in increments of 0.05 for ratings above .60 and will have the following definitions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, Incentive Compensation awards made to an Elected Officers shall be subject to the terms of this Exhibit B. The terms of Exhibit B were approved by the stockholders of Lockheed Martin Corporation at its 2006 Annual Meeting.
 
The eligible class of Participants subject to Exhibit B is those Participants who are Elected Officers on the last day of the Plan Year.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Incentive Compensation payable under the Plan to (i) the Elected Officer who is the Chief Executive Officer shall not exceed 0.3% of Cash Flow for the Plan Year; and (ii) each of the Participants who are Elected Officers on the last day of the Plan Year, other than the Chief Executive Officer, shall not exceed 0.2% of Cash Flow for the Plan Year. The Subcommittee shall have discretion to determine the conditions, restrictions or other limitations, in accordance with and subject to the terms of this Plan and Code Section 162(m), on the payment of Incentive Compensation to the Elected Officers. The Subcommittee may reserve the right to reduce the amount payable under this paragraph C in accordance with any standards contained in this Plan (including Exhibit A) or on any other basis (including the Subcommittee's discretion). Neither the Subcommittee or the Committee, nor the Board of Directors shall have the authority under this Plan to increase the amount payable under this paragraph C.
 
Before authorizing any Incentive Compensation payment under this Plan to a Participant who is an Elected Officer, the Subcommittee must certify in writing (by resolution or otherwise) that the payments are consistent with paragraph C of this Exhibit B and that any other material terms under this Plan for payment of a bonus were satisfied.
 
For purposes of this Exhibit B,
(i) "Cash Flow" means net cash flow from operations as determined by the Subcommittee at the end of the Plan Year in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Subcommittee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation's audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Subcommittee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical
 
practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows. The Subcommittee shall have the right to specify any other adjustment that should be applied in determining Cash Flow that it deems necessary or appropriate to take into account any event recognized under any accounting policy or practice affecting the Corporation, provided the Subcommittee specifies the adjustment at or prior to the time the organizational performance goals for the Corporation are reviewed with the Subcommittee, but in no event later than March 30 of the Plan Year;
(ii) "Subcommittee" means a subcommittee of the Committee, composed solely of two or more outside directors of the Company (within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) (4) (C)) or the entire Committee if all members of the Committee are outside directors.
 
The provisions of Exhibit B shall be interpreted and administered by the Subcommittee in a manner consistent with the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Code Section 162(m).
 

Exhibit 99.2
WHEREAS, Robert J. Stevens ("Mr. Stevens"), after 25 years of service for Lockheed Martin Corporation ("LMC" or "Corporation") has announced that he will step down as LMC's Chief Executive Officer on December 31, 2012;
WHEREAS, Mr. Stevens has agreed to remain an employee in the position of Strategic Advisor through February 28, 2014 in order to assist in the transition to a new Chief Executive Officer, to represent the Corporation in a variety of forums, and to do such other tasks as may be requested by the Chief Executive Officer;
WHEREAS, Mr. Stevens is currently Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and subject to approval by the Board of Directors and election as a director by the stockholders at the April 2013 annual meeting, the Board of Directors has elected him to serve as Executive Chairman of the Board to further facilitate the transition from his leadership role with the Corporation;
WHEREAS, LMC believes that, in light of the significant management positions held by Mr. Stevens and his access to confidential information of the Corporation, it would serve the Corporation's interests to obtain an agreement from Mr. Stevens not to engage in activity in competition with the business of the Corporation;
WHEREAS, LMC has determined that it will provide to Mr. Stevens certain compensation and benefits in recognition of the contributions he has made and will continue to make to LMC's long-term success;
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises contained within this Transition Agreement ("Agreement"), Mr. Stevens and LMC agree as follows:
 
Transition Agreement
Page 2 of 4
 
: Mr. Stevens agrees that he will enter into an agreement ("Non-competition Agreement") with the Corporation effective upon the date of his retirement as an employee of the Corporation pursuant to which he will agree that for the three year-period following the effective date of Mr. Stevens' retirement from LMC, Mr. Stevens will not, on his own or in association with others, either be directly or indirectly employed by or engage in or be associated with or tender advice or services as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner, consultant, or otherwise by or with any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, venture or other business entity (whether or not for profit) considered to be a Competitor of LMC. The Non-competition Agreement will also provide that during that three-year period, Mr. Stevens will agree not to interfere with, disrupt, or attempt to disrupt the relationship, contractual or otherwise, between LMC and any customer, supplier, or employee of LMC. For the purpose of the Non-competition Agreement, the term "Competitor" will mean those companies that the Corporation designates as competitors but will include, at a minimum, the companies included within the S&P Aerospace and Defense Index as well as BAE plc, European Aeronautic Defence and Space Company N.V. (EADS), SAIC, Inc., Exelis, Inc., Huntington Ingalls Industries, Inc., any subsidiary of such company, or any successor to all or a material part of the business of any such company as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, operation of law, or similar transaction. Mr. Stevens agrees that the Non-competition Agreement is in addition to any other non-competition agreement in effect currently or at the time of execution of the Non-competition Agreement.
Covenant Not to Compete
 
(a) LMC will continue to provide monthly security services to Mr. Stevens during his tenure as Strategic Advisor and after March 1, 2014, dependent upon his relationship with the Corporation and level of potential threat to be reviewed on an as-needed basis, not less than annually, by the Classified Business and Security Committee of the Board of Directors. LMC will provide equipment, subscriptions, connectivity, technical, and administrative support until December 31, 2014, subject to annual reconsideration thereafter by the Management Development and Compensation Committee. To the extent that the personal security authorized under this Paragraph 3(a) is taxable to Mr. Stevens, LMC shall reimburse Mr. Stevens for all taxes (including any Federal, state, and local income taxes, employment taxes, excise taxes, and any interest or penalties imposed with respect to such taxes as a result of action or inaction by LMC) and an additional gross-up amount to make Mr. Stevens whole for the taxes on such reimbursement amount.
Covenant to Provide Security and Office Support:
(b) : Until December 31, 2014, Mr. Stevens will continue to have access to the LMC corporate aircraft for business and personal use in accordance with LMC's policies for use of corporate aircraft. Income will be imputed at appropriate IRS rates if a family member accompanies him on a trip on the corporate aircraft unless the family member's attendance is for a business purpose.
Covenant to Provide Use of Corporate Aircraft
Transition Agreement
Page 3 of 4
 
(c) :Until December 31, 2014, Mr. Stevens will continue to participate in Lockheed Martin's Executive Physical Program.
Executive Physicals
(d) :Until December 31, 2014, Mr. Stevens will continue to be reimbursed for his participation in professional organizations.
Professional Memberships
(e) : For his services from January 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013 as Strategic Advisor, Mr. Stevens will receive a base salary at an annual rate of $1,800,000. The target under the Management Incentive Compensation Plan for his services as Strategic Advisor in 2013 will be 150%. For the period from January 1, 2014 through February 28, 2014, Mr. Stevens will receive a monthly salary of $100,000. In lieu of participation in long-term incentive programs for 2013 and 2014 and contingent upon execution of the Non-competition Agreement in a form satisfactory to the Corporation, Mr. Stevens will receive a lump sum payment of $2,000,000, payable on or about March 1, 2014, but no later than March 14, 2014. The Corporation shall not be obligated to make the $2,000,000 payment to Mr. Stevens unless he executes the Non-competition Agreement on or before March 1, 2014.
Compensation
 
(a) : This Agreement will become effective upon the date of execution by both parties.
Effective Date of Agreement
(b) : This Agreement shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any dispute concerning this Agreement shall be determined by binding arbitration under the American Arbitration Association rules for arbitrating commercial disputes.
Governing Law
(c) : It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this Agreement bind the parties. Accordingly, if any particular portion of this Agreement is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this Agreement shall be deemed amended to delete that portion from this Agreement with such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of that provision.
Severability
(d) Nothing in this Agreement is intended to affect any of the other benefits or compensation payable to Mr. Stevens as a result of his employment with LMC or his retirement.
Other Benefits:
(e) : It is the intent of the parties that the taxable payments and benefits under this Agreement constitute (i) a "short-term deferral," or (ii) reimbursements, medical benefits, or in-kind benefits payable under a separation pay plan for a limited period of time within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and related regulations and guidance issued thereunder. To the maximum extent permitted, this Agreement shall be interpreted in accordance with the foregoing sentence. With respect to any provision of this Agreement that provides for reimbursement of costs and expenses or in-kind benefits, the right to reimbursement or benefits shall not be exchanged for any other benefit, and the amount of expenses eligible for reimbursement (or in-kind benefits paid) in one year shall not affect
Section 409A
Transition Agreement
Page 4 of 4
 
amounts reimbursable or provided as in-kind benefits in any subsequent year. All expense reimbursements paid pursuant to this Agreement that are taxable income to Mr. Stevens shall in no event be paid later than the end of the calendar year next following the year in which Mr. Stevens incurs the expense. Each separately identified amount for which Mr. Stevens is eligible under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment or separate series of payments, as applicable.
(f) . During his tenure as Strategic Advisor, Mr. Stevens shall perform his duties in his best judgment and in accordance with the policies, procedures and practices of the Corporation, including the Corporation's Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Compliance with this standard is consideration and a precondition for the payments to be made under this Agreement.
Performance of Duties


