FILE:IBM/IBM-8K-20030116180427.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report: January 16, 2003 (Date of earliest event reported) INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) New York 1-2360 13-0871985 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (IRS employer Identification No.) ARMONK, NEW YORK 10504 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) 914-499-1900 (Registrant's telephone number)
Item 5. Other Events The registrant's press release dated January 16, 2003, regarding its financial results for the periods ended December 31, 2002, including unaudited consolidated financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2002, is Attacment I of this Form 8-K. Attachment II of this Form 8-K is IBM's Chief Financial Officer John R. Joyce's fourth quarter earnings presentation to securities analysts on Thursday, January 16, 2003. Attachment III of this Form 8-K is IBM's By-laws as amended through January 1, 2003. IBM's web site (www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including financial and other information for investors (www.ibm.com/investor/). IBM encourages investors to visit its various web sites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted. SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. Date: January 16, 2003 By: /s/ Robert F. Woods ---------------------------- (Robert F. Woods) Vice President and Controller

Exhibit 99.1 ATTACHMENT I IBM REPORTS 2002 FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR RESULTS o Fourth-quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.11, including $.23 of net charges, or $1.34 excluding the net charges; o Income from continuing operations of $1.9 billion, including $405 million of net charges in the fourth quarter; o Fourth-quarter revenues from continuing operations of $23.7 billion, up 7 percent ARMONK, N.Y., January 16, 2003 . . . IBM today announced fourth- quarter 2002 diluted earnings per common share from continuing operations of $1.11, including $.23 per diluted share for charges primarily associated with the acquisition and integration of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting (PwCC), compared with diluted earnings per common share of $1.46 in the fourth quarter of 2001. Excluding the charges, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations would be $1.34. Fourth-quarter income from continuing operations was $1.9 billion -- including $405 million of charges -- compared with $2.6 billion in the fourth-quarter 2001. Excluding the charges, income from continuing operations would be $2.3 billion. Revenues from continuing operations for the fourth quarter were $23.7 billion, up 7 percent (4 percent at constant currency) compared with the fourth quarter of 2001 revenues of $22.1 billion. Samuel J. Palmisano, IBM chairman and chief executive officer, said: "In one of the most challenging years in business, we delivered a solid quarter and finished the year strong. We continued to gain share in our core businesses and managed our company very well in a tough environment. Our e-business on demand strategy is resonating as more customers look to IBM to improve productivity and drive competitive advantage. "In 2002, our strong cash flow gave us the flexibility to invest in future growth and shareholder value. We made a number of strategic decisions and took the necessary actions to better position our company. We strengthened our software portfolio through a number of important acquisitions, the latest in December when we announced the agreement to acquire Rational Software. At year end, IBM's financial position was strong enough for us to take the important step of fully funding the U.S. pension plan. "Technology Group and the Personal Systems segment continued to improve operations and returned to profitability in the fourth quarter. The integration of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting is on track, and already we are seeing substantial benefit from this acquisition. IBM Global Services continued to gain share and delivered strong signings of more than $18 billion. "I am proud of the hard work and dedication of the IBM team and their accomplishments last year and look forward to building on this momentum in 2003." From continuing operations in the fourth quarter, the Americas revenues were $10.3 billion, an increase of 5 percent (7 percent at constant currency) from the 2001 period. Revenues from Europe/Middle East/Africa were $7.8 billion, up 13 percent (1 percent at constant currency). Asia-Pacific revenues grew 7 percent (4 percent at constant currency) to $4.8 billion. OEM revenues decreased 11 percent (11 percent at constant currency) to $828 million compared with the fourth quarter of 2001. Revenues from Global Services, including maintenance, grew 17 percent (13 percent at constant currency) in the fourth quarter to $10.6 billion driven by the PwCC acquisition. Global Services revenues, excluding maintenance, increased 19 percent (15 percent at constant currency). IBM signed more than $18 billion in services contracts in the quarter compared with $9 billion in the 2002 third quarter, including a significant contract with JP Morgan Chase that utilizes new on demand technologies. The integration of PwCC to Pag1
form Business Consulting Services in the quarter is on track. Hardware revenues from continuing operations increased 1 percent (down 1 percent at constant currency) to $8.1 billion from the 2001 fourth quarter. Despite continued weak IT spending, revenues at constant currency from xSeries Intel-based servers grew with high-end server demand particularly strong, while revenues from pSeries UNIX- based servers were flat with fourth-quarter 2001 revenues. IBM eServer revenues from iSeries declined year over year. While zSeries revenues also declined in the quarter from a year ago, total deliveries of zSeries computing power as measured in MIPS (millions of instructions per second) increased 13 percent compared with 7 percent in the third- quarter 2002. Revenues from microelectronics decreased in the quarter as did overall storage products revenues although its disk storage revenues increased, driven by high-end "Shark" products. The personal computer unit grew year-over-year revenues in the fourth quarter compared with declining revenues in the third-quarter 2002. Software revenues were flat (down 2 percent in constant currency) at $3.8 billion compared to the 2001 fourth quarter. Middleware products, which include WebSphere and DB2, declined 1 percent at constant currency in the fourth quarter of 2002. WebSphere, IBM's family of e-business middleware products, grew 4 percent from a year ago. IBM's leading database management software, DB2, grew 11 percent. Lotus and Tivoli revenues were flat compared with the year-ago period. Operating systems revenues decreased compared with the prior-year period. In the fourth-quarter 2002, IBM announced an agreement to acquire Rational Software for $2.1 billion. Rational Software develops tools to build, test and manage software projects and further complements the company's middleware family of products. Global Financing revenues decreased 11 percent (11 percent at constant currency) in the fourth quarter of 2002 to $829 million. Revenues from the Enterprise Investments/Other area, which includes industry-specific IT solutions, increased 1 percent (down 6 percent at constant currency) compared to the fourth quarter of 2001 to $343 million. The company's overall gross profit margin from continuing operations was 38.8 percent in the fourth quarter, compared to 40.3 percent in the year-ago quarter. In the fourth quarter, total expense and other income from continuing operations of $6.5 billion increased 21 percent over the year- earlier period, including charges of $614 million associated with the acquisition and integration of PwCC and related restructuring as well as one-time compensation costs, which are partially offset by a $40 million benefit from net adjustments to restructuring charges from the second- quarter actions. Specifically, selling, general and administrative expense increased 16 percent reflecting the PwCC charges offset by a benefit from net adjustments related to second-quarter actions, as well as lower goodwill expense. Research and development expense decreased 3 percent in the fourth quarter. Lower intellectual property and custom development income and other (income) and expense had a negative impact on results compared with the year-earlier period. Overall, IBM continues to benefit from the company's continuing e-business transformation and productivity enhancements. IBM's effective tax rate from continuing operations in the fourth quarter was 29.5 percent compared with 28.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2001. As previously announced in June, the company reached an agreement with Hitachi, Ltd. to sell its hard disk drive business, and, therefore, the results from continuing operations exclude the HDD business. The HDD business is presented separately as discontinued operations. The transaction with Hitachi was completed on December 31, 2002. For the fourth-quarter 2002, IBM reported a loss from discontinued operations of $893 million, or $.52 per diluted common share, including $625 million on an after-tax basis, or $.36 per diluted share, for asset Page 2
write-offs, workforce reductions and the loss related to the HDD sale, compared with a loss from discontinued operations of $232 million, or $.13 per diluted share in the 2001 fourth quarter. For total operations, net income for the fourth-quarter 2002 was $1.0 billion, or $.59 per diluted common share, compared with $2.3 billion in net income, or $1.33 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2001. Total revenues of $24.2 billion, which includes $548 million of revenues from the HDD unit, increased 6 percent from a year ago. In the fourth quarter, IBM spent approximately $75 million on share repurchases. The average number of basic common shares outstanding in the quarter was 1.70 billion compared with 1.72 billion shares in the same period of 2001. Full-Year 2002 Results For the year ended December 31, 2002, income from continuing operations was $5.3 billion, or $3.07 per diluted common share. In the prior-year period, income from continuing operations was $8.1 billion, or $4.59 per diluted share. Revenues from continuing operations totaled $81.2 billion, a decline of 2 percent (3 percent at constant currency) compared with 2001 revenues of $83.1 billion. Included in income from continuing operations for full-year 2002 are the after-tax charge of $433 million, or $.25 per diluted share, related to the PwCC integration in the fourth quarter and the after-tax charges of $1.1 billion, or $.63 per diluted share, associated with the second quarter realignment of the Microelectronics Division and productivity actions. In the Americas, full-year revenues were $36.4 billion, down 3 percent (1 percent at constant currency) from the 2001 period. Revenues from Europe/Middle East/Africa were $24.3 billion, an increase of 1 percent (down 4 percent at constant currency) from the 2001 period. Asia-Pacific revenues were flat (flat at constant currency) at $17.2 billion. OEM revenues decreased 24 percent (24 percent at constant currency) to $3.3 billion. Revenues from Global Services in 2002 totaled $36.4 billion, an increase of 4 percent (3 percent at constant currency). Hardware revenues were $27.5 billion, a decrease of 10 percent (11 percent at constant currency). Software revenues totaled $13.1 billion, an increase of 1 percent (flat at constant currency). Global Financing revenues totaled $3.2 billion, a decrease of 6 percent (5 percent at constant currency). Revenues from the Enterprise Investments/Other area declined 8 percent (10 percent at constant currency) to $1.1 billion. Loss from discontinued operations for 2002 was $1.8 billion, or $1.01 per diluted share, including $1.0 billion on an after-tax basis, or $.59 per diluted share, for asset write-offs, workforce reductions and the loss related to the HDD sale, compared with a loss from discontinued operations of $423 million, or $.24 per diluted share in the prior year. For total operations, net income for 2002 was $3.6 billion, or $2.06 per diluted share compared with $7.7 billion, or $4.35 per diluted share in 2001. Total revenues of $83.1 billion, which includes $1.9 billion of revenues from the HDD unit, declined 3 percent from a year ago. Share repurchases totaled approximately $4.2 billion in 2002. The average number of basic common shares outstanding in 2002 was 1.70 billion compared with 1.73 billion shares in 2001. In addition, total basic shares outstanding increased by 24.0 million shares due to a contribution of IBM stock at year end to the company's U.S. pension plan. There were 1.72 billion basic common shares outstanding at December 31, 2002. During 2002, the company's strong cash flow provided the flexibility to make appropriate investments to support future growth and shareholder value. Significant investments in strategic acquisitions, notably PwCC in services and several software acquisitions, strengthened Page 3
IBM's business portfolio, as did divestitures from some non-strategic business areas such as hard disk drives. Additionally, at the end of December, IBM contributed approximately $4 billion to its U.S. pension plan -- $2.1 billion in cash with the remaining $1.9 billion in IBM stock -- which restored the plan to fully funded status, as measured by its accumulated benefit obligation. Cash at year-end 2002 was $6.0 billion compared with $6.4 billion last year. Debt, including global financing, totaled $26.0 billion, a decrease of $1.2 billion from year-end 2001. The core debt-to-capitalization ratio was 10 percent at the end of 2002, and global financing debt declined $1.7 billion from year-end 2001 to a total of $23.8 billion, resulting in a debt-to-equity ratio of 6.9 to 1. Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute "forward- looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, as discussed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Conference Call and Webcast IBM's regular quarterly earnings conference call is scheduled to begin at 5:00 p.m. EST, today. Investors may participate by viewing the webcast at www.ibm.com/investor/4q02. Financial Results Attached INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL RESULTS (Dollars in millions except per share amounts) nm - not meaningful * Does not total due to rounding. Page 5
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Page 6
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SEGMENT DATA nm - not meaningful Page 7
* Reclassified to conform with 2002 presentation. Page 8
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SEGMENT DATA nm - not meaningful Page 9
* Reclassified to conform with 2002 presentation. Contact: Bill Hughes, 914-499-6565 bhughes@us.ibm.com Carol Makovich, 914 499-6212 makovich@us.ibm.com Page 10

Exhibit 99.2 Thank you, Jackie. Good afternoon. This is Hervey Parke, Vice President of Investor Relations for IBM, thank you all for joining us. Since this is a year-end earnings release, our prepared remarks will be just a little longer than usual. Now, let me quickly give you a few pieces of information. At this time, the opening page of the presentation should have automatically loaded, and you should be on Chart 1, the title page. After the last chart in the presentation we will provide you an index to go back to specific slides during the Q&A. Or, you can jump to any chart in the presentation at any time by clicking on the chart name on the scrolling list found on the left navigation bar. For printing slides, there are two alternatives. There is a link on the index page so you can download the entire set of charts for printing. Or, there is a link to printer-friendly charts along the bottom of the presentation window so you can download them at any time. In about an hour, you will also be able to link to the prepared remarks using a link also found at the bottom of the presentation window. And finally, a replay of this webcast will be available on this website by this time tomorrow. Now, please click on the Next button and move to Chart 2. Certain comments made by John Joyce or myself during this call may be characterized as forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Additional information concerning these factors is contained in the company's filing with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC, from the IBM web site, or from us in Investor Relations. Now, please click again on the Next button for Chart 3. And at this time, let me turn the call over to John Joyce, IBM's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Thanks Hervey. Good afternoon everyone. Thank you for joining us today. We've accomplished a great deal in the 4th quarter: o We expect continued share gains in key businesses. o We've had strong signings in Global Services.
o We've paid for PwC Consulting. o We've sold our HDD business. o We've fully funded our U.S. Pension Plan. o We've improved our execution on working capital. And as you have already seen from our press release, our 4th-quarter results came in better than expected. We grew revenue from Continuing Operations 7%, to $23.7 billion. Three months ago, investors were very concerned about our ability to deliver 12% sequential growth from the 3rd quarter, excluding PwC Consulting. We exceeded that with 13% sequential growth. This 4th-quarter revenue is a statement about our leadership, in the current economic environment. We also delivered in the 4th quarter: o $2.7 billion in pre-tax profit, as reported, including profitable results in our Technology and in Personal Systems Segments, o Earnings-per-Share for Continuing Operations of $1.34 as the Street has modeled our results, and $1.11 as reported. We'll take you through a bridge on that in a few minutes. o $4.5 billion in Free Cash Flow, after putting $2.1 billion of cash into our pension fund, o And the cash and core debt ratios of our balance sheet came in better than we had expected. The consistency of these results in the 4th quarter, and prior quarters this year, is not an accident. We have been executing on a series of Leadership Initiatives designed to deliver results with two characteristics: o greater consistency in weak economic environments, o and profitable growth as the economy turns. Click on the Next button for Chart 4.
FOCUSED INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH During the course of 2002, despite the weak economy, we have made steady, strong investments in growth. I showed you this chart at our analyst meeting in November. In addition to the $2 billion of cash we put in the U.S. pension fund, we invested $5 billion in Research & Development, which has produced our industry leading products and services that are taking share, and which has given us an early lead in key emerging growth areas that exploit Services and Software technology. $5 billion in Capital Expenditures, which we have leveraged principally in Services, Technology and Financing, and selectively in Hardware. And over the past 18 months, another $5 billion in Acquisitions, principally in Services and Software. Investing with discipline will enable us to achieve profitable revenue growth. Back at our November meeting, I also showed you a chart comparing our Return On Invested Capital to the S&P 500 over a five-year period. IBM's ROIC has been 500 to 1000 basis points above that of the S&P 500 and well above our weighted average cost of capital for the five years ending 2001. It's an important point because it reflects our management discipline and strategy. Most companies can deliver impressive ROIC for one year. The key is to deliver impressive Return On Invested Capital on a sustained basis. Our investments in Research & Development, capital expenditures and acquisitions are based on a discipline to provide sustained, superior Return on Invested Capital. We now have estimates for our business segments for 2002. IBM's core ROIC was once again well above our Weighted Average Cost of Capital, led by strong returns in Services and Software. Six years ago Services and Software were about 45% of IBM's revenue. In 2002 they were over 60%. The shift in profit contribution has been even more dramatic. Our investments over those six years anticipated that ROIC opportunity shift. We have also exited businesses altogether, like hard disk drives, and we have outsourced manufacturing and administrative processes where we cannot differentiate ourselves, and where we can benefit from our business partners' expertise and scale. I don't have to tell this audience that, over the last six years, the returns from various investment alternatives have been extremely volatile. To generate superior ROIC over time, our discipline kept us away from most
acquisitions over the past several years. The returns on proposed deals were inadequate. So instead, we gave cash back to our investors through our robust stock buy-back program. This very point is the basis for our statements back then that we prioritized profitable revenue growth over just revenue growth alone, not a very popular concept in those freewheeling days. But the market has changed. We cut back on our $5 billion stock buy-back program due to the $5 billion acquisition program. We feel very confident about these investment trade-offs, and that we have accelerated IBM's strategic focus to the more profitable segments in the IT industry. Going forward, we will continue to monitor these alternatives carefully. Now, let's cover the 4th-quarter results, and then I'll provide you with our view of 2003. Please turn to Chart 5. I want to bridge you from our reported results to the Street estimates. 4Q02 FINANCIAL SUMMARY As I said earlier, for Continuing Operations, we reported Revenue of $23.7 billion and earnings-per-share of $1.11. Included in those results were certain charges associated with the PwC Consulting transaction that the Street excluded from their models. Regarding PwC Consulting, we had indicated in October that we expected as much as a 5-cent hit to ongoing operations, including amortization of intangibles. We estimate that we actually did better than that. And for charges, we expected about 8 or 9 cents related to the deal proceeds, including the restricted stock units used for retention, and about 15 or 16 cents for transition charges associated with integration and restructuring. The actual charges turned out to be $614 million, as shown on this chart, as part of SG&A. To bridge to Street estimates, these charges would have to be backed out. But we also want to call out that our results, as reported, benefited by $40 million from truing up estimated reserves associated with the 2nd-quarter actions. To be fair, just as the Street excluded those charges from operational results back then, the benefit of the true-up should also be excluded this quarter from Expense as well. The net of these two charges is about $575 million, or 23 cents. So relative to the Street's view of $1.30, we achieved $1.34, including the PwC
operations. Given the environment, we are pleased with these results. Now let's turn to Revenue, Chart 6. 4Q02 REVENUE Total Revenue from Continuing Operations was up 7% as reported, and up 4% at constant currency. And as I said in my opening, revenue grew 13% sequentially from the 3rd quarter to the 4th quarter without PwC Consulting, driven by 20% growth in Hardware and 22% growth in Software. Revenue for Global Services was up 17% year-to-year as reported, and 13% at constant currency. Roughly 14 points of this growth came from the acquisition of PwC Consulting, so on a normalized basis, the pace of business was about the same as in the 3rd quarter. Hardware revenue in the 4th quarter grew 1% as reported and declined 1% at constant currency, a slight improvement from the 3rd-quarter pace. We expect to see share gains on many fronts when all the industry data is in. Of special note, our xSeries servers, with their leading edge technology, continued to have the strongest growth, and PC's moved into the growth category. Software improved on its 3rd-quarter growth rate with flat revenue, as reported, and a 2% decline at constant currency. We expect continued gains in our Middleware share as well. Global Financing revenues declined 11% at constant currency, reflecting the declining asset base and lower remarketing sales. Income-generating assets were down 11% from last year, and financing originations were $11 billion in the quarter. Finally, we've included our geographic breakout in our supplemental charts at the end. The revenues for the three major geographies reflect the addition of PwC Consulting in the 4th quarter. In the Americas, the U.S. was a little stronger than Canada and Latin America. And Asia Pacific reflects two very different environments. Japan is nearly 60% of A/P's revenue, but its economy remains fragile and lacks momentum. On the other hand, in China, Korea, and the ASEAN region, we continued to see good growth. In Europe, Germany and the UK remained particularly weak.
You'll also see on that chart that Total OEM revenue declined 11%. But this decline was driven by our exiting two low-margin businesses, our Displays and Electronic Card manufacturing and Testing. Our OEM logic revenue, on the other hand, accelerated. Now let me give you an additional view of our revenue, by Industry Sector, Chart 7. 4Q02 REVENUE -- INDUSTRY SECTOR This chart shows the approximate size of our five worldwide industry sectors, as well as our important Small and Medium Business customers. As we pointed out last quarter, while we report our results by brand and by geography, our go-to-market strategy is based on customer requirements, to enable us to put the right focus on solutions. We are also industry leaders in these sectors, but notably we continued to gain share in Public Sector, the sector with the strongest growth in the current economic environment. And the 4th quarter rounded out a year of consistent growth with our Small and Medium Business customers, despite the economy, and reflecting our increased focus on this segment. You can see that we had strong growth sequentially from the 3rd to the 4th quarter in each of these sectors, and these numbers do not include PwC Consulting. So let me reiterate, our strength is our focus on customer solutions. Now let's turn to Gross Profit, Chart 8. 4Q02 GROSS PROFIT MARGIN Total gross profit margin for Continuing Operations in the 4th quarter was 38.8%, down a point and a half from last year, but up nearly two points from the 3rd quarter. Year-to-year, Global Services was down two points. Let me give you a couple of factors. First, PwC Consulting was added at a lower gross profit margin than our base business. Part of PwC's lower margin reflects the greater mix of reimbursable client expenses in both revenue and cost. But we also expect to improve other operational efficiencies over time, as we indicated at the time of
the acquisition. The second factor was that we had signings in our IT Services business that came late in the quarter. As a result, our utilization rates were lower than expected. On the other hand, Software gross profit margins improved due to better support efficiencies. Hardware gross profit margin improved slightly, despite continued pricing competitiveness. Gross margins improved year-to-year in nearly every key hardware brand. Now let's turn to Expense, Chart 9. 4Q02 EXPENSE SUMMARY CHART As I have already discussed, Expense for Continuing Operations, as reported, included charges of $614 million associated with the acquisition and integration of PwC Consulting and related restructuring, as well as one-time compensation costs. I also noted that we had a net benefit of $40 million from truing up reserves associated with our 2nd-quarter actions. The box on the right of the 4th-quarter data shows you that both of these charges were recorded in Expense. We've also combined these charges with the 2nd-quarter charges for a full-year total. Without these charges in the 4th quarter, and without the addition of PwC Consulting, SG&A would have been down 1% year-to-year. Also note that R&D was down 3%. Now let me take you through the details of specific ongoing expense items that can help or hurt earnings in different ways from quarter to quarter. This "road map" of expense that we started providing with the 2001 Annual Report has been very well received. Year-to-year this quarter, most factors hurt our profit. Continued workforce rebalancing costs, over and above what we did in the PwC Consulting consolidation, were up $25 million. Real estate transactions cost us $104 million. IP Income was down $135 million from a year ago, despite two sizable deals totaling about $170 million. Equity transactions were down $68 million, and income resulting from retirement-related plans was down $48 million. I'll come back to this topic in a moment. On the other hand, the elimination of Goodwill amortization at the beginning of the year helped us, one last time, by $66 million. And Bad Debt accruals, Interest Income and Expense were all about
the same as last year. These "road map" factors may help or hurt in any given quarter, and it's our job to deal with these events over time, within the context of our business model. This quarter, our results were significantly impacted on a year-to-year basis, but as we enter 2003, we have a lot of these issues behind us. Finally, let me say a word about Currency in light of the dollar's new weakness. Our ongoing hedging programs are intended to smooth the volatility of currency, offsetting losses created by a strong dollar, and benefits created by a weak dollar. The year-to-year effect includes the fact that last year's 4th quarter had hedging gains because of the dollar's strength at the time and this 4th quarter had hedging losses because of the dollar's weakness. And looking ahead to the 1st quarter, our hedging programs will continue to offset the benefits of a weaker dollar, as in the 4th quarter. Now let me update you on our Pension assumptions for 2003. As we stated in our press release on December 31, 2002, we fully funded the U.S. pension plan to the level of the Accumulated Benefit Obligations or ABO. With the declining equity markets in December, that contribution was just under $4 billion, $2.1 billion in cash and $1.9 billion in stock. And as we had indicated, while we made contributions to non-U.S. plans during the year, some of those were not fully funded at the end of the year. We have chosen to bring those plans to fully funded status over time. But because they were under funded, we had an equity reversal of $3 billion, a little more than the $2.7 billion we had estimated back in November, again, due to the weakness of the markets. As you know, this reversal is a noncash event, and our rating agencies were fully briefed on this, after which both Moody's and S&P reaffirmed their ratings on IBM. Our stronger-than-expected cash performance in the 4th quarter should only reinforce their support. Now let's look at 2003. Back in October, we indicated we were considering using 8% to 8.5% for our long-term returns on our U.S. Pension Plan assets in 2003. In light of the markets, we have decided to use the low end of that range, 8%, which is down a point and a half from 2002 assumption of 9.5%. We'll have similar reductions in our other major non-U.S. plans. The collective effect of this and other assumptions around our worldwide pension funds, as well as our year-end contributions, will be that income from our retirement-related plans in 2003 will be down approximately $500 million year-to-year. But as I have discussed with you before, this impact will be more than offset by our 2nd-quarter-2002 restructuring actions. I will comment on
2003 in total at the end of my remarks. Now let's turn to Cash Flow, Chart 10. 4Q02 - CASH FLOW Free Cash Flow was strong for both the quarter and the year, despite a weak economy and lower net income. When reviewing Free Cash Flow in 2002, remember that the Working Capital/Other line of $0.7 billion is after a $2.1-billion contribution to the U.S. pension plan. So for the quarter, the company generated Free Cash Flow of $4.5 billion, down $800 million from a year ago, but up $1.3 billion before the pension contribution. And for the year, Free Cash Flow was $5.9 billion, down $1.4 billion, but up $700 million before the contribution. The strength came from our continued focus on cash generation and improved operational performance in the key working capital components, accounts receivable, inventory and payables. We had strong performance in collection in all regions and business units. Inventory continued to improve. Inventory now stands at a long-term low for the company, and turns continued to increase both sequentially from the 3rd quarter and year-to-year. The Working Capital/Other line also reflects two other key entries besides the use of $2.1 billion for the pension plan. We had a benefit of approximately $650 million for the year from monetization of interest rate swaps associated with the company's debt portfolio. And at the end of the year, we collected on a tax-refund receivable for prior years' taxes of $460 million. Our net capital expenditures were up $326 million for the quarter over last year, but for the year they were down $220 million. We also absorbed $200 million of restructuring payments in the quarter, and $800 million for the full year. In 2003, you should expect some additional cash outflows for the actions we took in 2002 to make the company more efficient. Below Free Cash Flow, there were some important moves in 2002. Our investments in Global Financing Assets were lower, but so was our debt in
support of those assets. We made significant investments in acquisitions, notably, using $2.8 billion dollars in cash for PwC Consulting. We completed the sale of our HDD business to Hitachi at the end of the year which brought in a net $1.2 billion in cash in the 4th quarter, with another $600 million to come over the next three years. We distributed $5.2 billion to investors through stock buy-back and dividends in 2002. Of this, $4.2 billion was in the form of share repurchase, and $1 billion was through dividends. Share repurchase remains an important part of our financial model. However, given the acquisition of PwC Consulting and the contribution to our pension fund, our share-repurchase activity was reduced in the 4th quarter. In the 4th quarter, we spent $74 million to buy back about 1.3 million shares with $3.9 billion dollars remaining in our last Board authorization. For the year we repurchased 48.5 million shares, and we ended the year with roughly the equivalent of 1.75 billion shares outstanding -- diluted. There has been much discussion in the press recently about dividends and possible change in the tax law. We monitor these developments carefully, as you would expect. If the taxation of dividends is reduced significantly, we at least have the capacity to increase dividends while maintaining the flexibility we need to make acquisitions when the opportunities arise. But let's see how these tax laws play out first. Now let's look at that Balance Sheet -- Chart 11. 4Q02 - BALANCE SHEET The Balance Sheet remains very strong, even with all that's happened in the 4th quarter. At the end of the year, our cash levels were high, our total debt level was down, and, our core debt-to-capital was well within a comfortable range. We ended the quarter with $6 billion in cash, up $800 million from 3rd Quarter and down just $400 million from year end 2001. At the 3rd-quarter earnings call we noted that the 4th quarter had some key dynamics, notably the investment in PwC Consulting and the sale of the HDD business. We said that core debt to capital may rise in the 4th quarter as a result. It did, but our focus on cash helped keep this to a very modest increase. Core debt increased $600 million year-to-year to $2.2 billion, and stands at a conservative 10% debt-to-capital. Since our strong cash position is far greater than our core debt, our core business should be considered debt free.
Our total debt of $26 billion is driven almost entirely by our Global Financing business, and its debt decreased by $1.7 billion, consistent with a reduction in Global Financing assets. Global Financing was leveraged at an appropriate 6.9 to 1. As you know, in the 4th quarter we took advantage of the very low interest rate environment to do some very inexpensive term debt financing. So, with all we've done in the 4th quarter, the Balance Sheet does remain very strong. Now before we move on, let me tell you about some added disclosure we are planning. Our IBM Annual Report for 2002 will be expanded to provide you a view of worldwide Global Financing, in lieu of just the U.S. view you used to get from the IBM Credit Corp. Annual Report. And by the way, to improve our borrowing efficiency, we will be funding all debt through the IBM shelf registration and canceling the ICC shelf. Now let me turn to a discussion of some of our individual businesses, starting with Global Services, Chart 12. GLOBAL SERVICES Given the environment, Global Services' performance was noteworthy, highlighted by several significant accomplishments. During the quarter, IGS achieved its second largest quarter of signings ever, $18.1 billion dollars; secured their second multibillion-dollar On-Demand outsourcing contract with JP Morgan Chase; kept the integration of PwC Consulting on track to form Business Consulting Services as one team; and met the first quarter of business expectations for the PwC Consulting acquisition. IGS Revenue, at $10.6 billion, was up 17% as reported, 13% at constant currency. Services was up 15%, while maintenance was flat, both at constant currency. Excluding PwCC, Global Services was down 1% year-to-year, in-line with the industry. However, the acquisition has brought significant leadership and scale to IBM in the IT Services industry. Total signings for Services were $18.1 billion. Even when you exclude approximately $1 billion of PwC Consulting signings, it is still the largest signings quarter we've had in the last two years. This quarter we signed: o twelve deals greater than $100 million, o of which two deals were greater than $1 billion.
Our relative strength in signings was evident in both our long-term and short-term businesses. Our long-term signings for the quarter were up 3% year-to-year. Our short-term signings for the quarter, excluding PwC Consulting, were down 6% year-to-year, but this contrasts our largest consulting competitor whose short-term signings declined 32%. The backlog for Global Services, including Strategic Outsourcing, BCS, IT Services and Maintenance, was estimated at $112 billion at the end of the quarter. At the beginning of the 4th quarter, PwC Consulting added $3.1 billion to the backlog, all relatively short-term contracts. Also note that, this quarter, changes in scope to existing contracts declined from previous quarters. At the end of the quarter, our pipeline of opportunity for 2003 appears relatively strong, particularly in the telecommunications, financial and industrial sectors, reflecting the interest in our On-Demand initiatives. Now, let's review the three major segments of Global Services: Strategic Outsourcing, which was more than 35% of Global Services, was flat year-to-year. We continued to roll out new capabilities of our On-Demand strategy. We have developed new On-Demand technologies for Utility Management Infrastructure, code named, "Blue Typhoon," that allow the dynamic allocation of IT resources to various customers. This technology is a key competitive advantage. IDC recently released a report supporting our On-Demand initiative. They concluded that, not only is Utility Computing timely in the eyes of IT managers, IBM is most likely to capture a leading market position. E-Business hosting, which provides web hosting infrastructure and application management as an Internet service, continued its strong pattern of growth, up 22%. Integrated Technology Services grew 1% at constant currency. ITS was almost 30% of Global Services, and includes product support services and maintenance. ITS Contract signings occurred late in the quarter, compared to the same period last year. The labor-based installation component of these contracts will flow into 2003. And finally, the third segment of IGS , Business Consulting Services. With the acquisition of PwC Consulting, BCS now represents more than 30% of Global Services revenue. Excluding PwC Consulting, this unit declined 4% for the quarter at constant currency, an improvement from the 3rd quarter's decline of
8%. BCS Americas, excluding PwC Consulting, posted its second sequential quarter of growth, 9% at constant currency, driven by strength in the public sector. Our largest consulting and systems integration competitor recently reported a revenue decline in the Americas of 3%. BCS Europe continued to lag the Americas, and was down 17% for the year. We have focused on rebalancing skills in this geography and expect results to stabilize in 2003. Now, let me give you a couple of additional specifics on the progress of the PwC Consulting integration. We have successfully retained about 99% of roughly 1,100 partners that were invited to join IBM. We have already regained 99 of the 149 accounts that dropped PwC Consulting prior to the acquisition, due to auditor independence issues. We successfully completed, on schedule, the second phase of our integration plan, which merged the two consulting organizations into one team, operating side-by-side, in a fully integrated management system. And, as I said earlier, we would estimate that PwC Consulting met our expectations for the quarter. So, overall -- a good quarter for Global Services: o very strong signings, o good revenue performance, given the environment, o a continued roll-out of our On-Demand initiative, and o a successful integration of PwC Consulting into the new Business Consulting Services. Now, click on the Next button for Chart 13, and I'll discuss eServers and Storage. eSERVERS AND STORAGE IBM's servers and storage had another good quarter, highlighted by share gains and continued gross profit margin expansion. Segment profit was up more than 14% year-to-year. First, zSeries mainframe revenue was down 4%, but MIPS grew 13%. Linux on the mainframe grew revenue by more than 45% from a year ago, and accounted for 17% of the revenue. Our pSeries server revenue was flat year-to-year, but gained share in this environment. We continued to have strong growth in our high-end, driven by our
p690. And in November we introduced the midrange p650 server, the lowest priced 8-way UNIX server on the market. This server, with it's Power4 engines, holds five key benchmarks. Its combination of high performance and low price generated strong demand, and the p650 was sold out. iSeries revenue was down 13% year-to-year. In just a few days we will announce iSeries servers with the ability to turn on additional capacity remotely for short periods of time. IBM's advanced software will also be included with these iSeries servers. By integrating this Capacity On Demand with IBM's advanced software, we will give customers outstanding flexibility to address unpredictable business peaks. This is a further extension of the eServer and Storage e-business on demand offerings. Based on this, we expect to see improved performance from our iSeries next quarter xSeries revenue grew 14% year-to-year. xSeries servers were up 19%. This continued to be fueled by the high end where we took share from every major competitor, again. By leveraging our research and development, we have the only Xeon-based 8-way and 16-way in the market. But growth was also driven by our 2-way rack and tower mainstream systems which provided customers with Xeon solutions months ahead of our competition, reflecting the leverage of our technology investments. These time-to-market and performance advantages helped generate the strong demand we saw across our server line. December was the first full month of BladeCenter products, and the combination of advanced hardware and IBM Director software resonated well with customers. Next, our storage family of products. Revenue for disk storage was up 6% year-to-year, and gross margins for Shark were up year-to-year. Shark footprints were larger in the 4th quarter, so we saw nearly a 70% increase in terabytes shipped as compared to a year ago. Tape revenue was down 17% year-to-year, in line with the market. And again, margins were up. And finally, our storage networking products, including networking switches and network-enabled Shark and Fast-T, continued to show strong growth, up 30% year-to-year. So we believe we continued to take share. Now click on the Next button for Personal and Printing Systems, Chart 14.
PERSONAL and PRINTING SYSTEMS Revenue in the quarter from our Personal and Printing Systems Group was flat year-to-year and up 9% sequentially. We've seen strong reception to our November announcement of IBM's patented "ThinkVantage" technologies for IBM PCs that can immediately reduce support costs. This segment delivered profit of $47 million this quarter, a $64-million improvement from a year ago, and a $68-million improvement sequentially. This is a direct result of the key strategies we have discussed in the past. In the 4th quarter, PC gross profit margins improved again, both year-to-year and sequentially, reflecting the execution of our variable cost model and cost-reduction initiatives. This effective asset and expense management helped enable the Personal and Printing Systems segment to generate cash of $400 million in the 4th quarter and nearly $900 million for the full year. Plant and field inventories were down over 35% from a year ago, and our Days Sales Outstanding also improved both year-to-year and sequentially. Now if you'll move to Chart 15, we'll cover Technology. TECHNOLOGY The Technology Segment delivered $42 million of profit in the 4th quarter, a direct result of the actions we took to realign this group during the 2nd quarter. Total segment revenue was $1.2 billion, down 20% year-to-year. Of this, external OEM revenue of $800 million was also down, 12% year-to-year. But our higher-margin OEM logic revenue of $597 million was up 35% year-to-year, driven by strong customer demand for our leading-edge copper PowerPC products and our growing foundry business. It was revenue from the display and card manufacturing businesses, which we have been exiting, that was down over 50% year-over-year, or $275 million. And at the end of the 4th quarter, we sold our interests in the China card assembly facility, GKI. This will further reduce our ongoing revenue by over
$150 million per quarter, but have no impact on profit. In the changing portfolio of our Technology business, we are seeing strong demand for our Engineering & Technology Services. They delivered $43 million of revenue in their second full quarter of operation. Looking beyond the 4th quarter, the new 300 millimeter plant continues to ramp and is on schedule. Last week, AMD announced its decision to work with us. They want to leverage IBM's advanced materials and technology, bringing low power and smaller circuits to their advanced microprocessors. This announcement, along with prior announcements with Sony, Toshiba and Chartered, demonstrates that the industry recognizes IBM's leadership technologies. And finally, we are pleased that our HDD agreement with Hitachi closed on schedule at the end of the year. In the 4th quarter, our loss in the HDD business, which is reported in Discontinued Operations, was 52 cents per share. Please note that there will be some limited discontinued operations activities as we conclude the transfer and shutdown of this business. Now click on the Next button for Software, Chart 16. SOFTWARE Our software business, at $3.8 billion, was flat as reported and declined 2% at constant currency. Operating Systems, which represent less than 20% of total software, declined 2% at constant currency. Middleware declined 1%. Yet we expect that, in this tough environment, IBM continued to gain share against its primary competitors. The software market remains difficult. The customer decision-making process continues to lengthen. And the size of individual software deals declined versus a year ago, a sign that customers continue to make smaller, short-term investments with a focus on quick paybacks. And while we continued to focus on expanding our customer base, including mid-sized customers, so far that growth has not been sufficient to offset those two customer trends. On a product basis, our results were mixed. First, the WebSphere family of products, focused on e-business infrastructure, grew 4% in the quarter, and 21% for the year. We continue to see customers shifting their investment towards WebSphere's higher-value-added products such as Portals and Business Integration, and less to the Application Server. Sequentially from the 3rd quarter, Websphere grew 64%, while our primary competitor's license revenue has been relatively flat since the 3rd quarter of 2001. Additionally, in support of
our efforts to gain more market share with the mid-market customers, we delivered two new offerings, WebSphere Express and Portal Express. Our Data Management software declined 3% in the quarter, but grew 9% for the year. Full-year growth was helped in part by the Informix acquisition which closed in the 3rd quarter of 2001. DB2, our leading database, grew 11% for the quarter and 9% for the full year. This is in sharp contrast to our nearest competitor who recently announced flat database revenues in their latest quarter and a 12% decline in their last four quarters. Clearly, given our recent performance, we continued to gain share. Database tools declined 19% in the quarter, but grew 2% for the year. Our entry and success in the database tools market has made it increasingly price competitive during the 2nd half of 2002. Content management grew 29% in the quarter and 26% for the full year. Lotus revenue was flat in the quarter and declined 5% for the year. Lotus continued the shift in its portfolio from the more mature messaging market to the new advanced collaboration applications. Tivoli continued its financial turnaround. In a down market, Tivoli had flat revenue for the quarter and 1% growth for the year, so we believe Tivoli gained share. During the Quarter, Software Group progressed with several Strategic Initiatives that will continue to provide technological leadership and value to our customers: During the quarter we announced our intent to acquire Rational Software Corporation. We expect their design, test, and management tools will help customers speed the development of integrated applications across their enterprises. We expect the acquisition to close later this quarter, pending regulatory approval. We will provide you with an update at that time. Our momentum with leading independent software vendors continued with four new alliances this quarter bringing the total number of strategic alliances to more than 90. In these challenging market conditions we continue to leverage productivity initiatives such as shared component development. We build things once and use them many times, across our entire software portfolio. This has led to significant savings in the production of code and much faster time to market. These initiatives contributed to middleware revenue growth of 3% in 2002, overall share gain in a market which declined 1%, and overall software segment pretax income growth of 12%, with strong cash flow. Now if you'll click on the Next button for Chart 17, I'll wrap up on 2002. LEADERSHIP INITIATIVES
As this chart indicates, maximizing shareholder returns goes beyond investments. We are fully focused on improving the profitability of our existing businesses. Back at our May Analyst Meeting, Sam Palmisano spoke of two principal business models within the technology sector, one based on exploiting Research & Development, and one based on superior execution. We have been improving our profitability by both means. The technology in our high-end servers and in our software gives us superior price/performance over our competitors. Our focus on Total Supply Chain management has improved our efficiencies across IBM. And changing IBM itself into an e-Business on Demand will increase the variable cost portion of our business model, giving us increased flexibility to deal effectively with changing levels of customer demand. Of course, we've been saying all year that efficiency and cost effectiveness are not just tools for profitability. They are competitive advantages as well. The clarity of these four Leadership Initiatives: o Organic Growth o Acquisitions and Divestitures o Stock buyback and Dividends, and o Cost/Expense Reduction -- that target shareholder returns has enabled us to act quickly and effectively this past year. But you have also seen other forms of Leadership Initiatives continue through 2002. From an industry standpoint, we have extended our base technology leadership through Research. And we have led in the adoptation of open standards, even urging our customers to demand it of their suppliers. We know it is what our customers want, and we have built our strategy around it. Both of these are paying off. From a customer standpoint, we have anticipated customer shift to integrated solutions and, more importantly, to the flexibility of e-Business on Demand. We have put our investments there, and we have reshaped our go-to-market strategy. Responding to future customer requirements is key to superior Return on Invested Capital on a sustained basis. 2002 was a year of IBM's extending its leadership. We've been winning in this weak economic environment, and no one is better positioned to meet the future needs of our customers as they shift to an on-Demand business.
Now let me turn to 2003. A year ago, we all looked ahead to 2002 and said it was going to be another demanding year, and a tough one to forecast. You will recall that strategists and security analysts were quite undecided about when to expect a turn in the market as a whole, and in the technology sector in particular. But we pointed to our business model's three fundamental strengths that served us well in a challenging economic environment. As we start the year, we already have about half of our earnings under contract. We expected to benefit from improvements in our cost structure. And we expected to gain share in key segments like Software, Services, Storage, and Servers, just as we had the year before. Few competitors could point to these strengths. So what's different a year later? Strategists and analysts are still undecided about the timing of a turn, but there is greater confidence that the tech sector has steadied. Now the question seems to be more one of how strong the recovery will be. And for IBM, those three fundamentals that helped us in a difficult 2002 will continue to help us while the market remains tough in 2003. But there is also little doubt that IBM is in much better shape than a year ago. We've strengthened existing businesses like our Microelectronics Division and our PC business. We've acquired some excellent Services and Software companies. We've shed some non-strategic businesses. We've fortified our pension plan, and, we've streamlined our infrastructure, working towards a more variable cost structure. These actions have positioned us to outperform the IT industry. 2003 will still have its challenges for us. o We expect continued pricing pressure. o We've already pointed to reduced net income from our pension plans due to lowering our return assumptions from 9.5% to 8%. o The market for Intellectual Property will continue to slow, and o We will have more shares outstanding due to our pension funding. o Industry analysts are not expecting demand to pick up until the second half of 2003 at the earliest. Yet, for IBM's 1st quarter, the current Street average has nearly 10% revenue growth and 9% EPS growth. I would not get ahead of the curve and expect more
than that. But the actions we took last year, the acquisitions, the rebalancing of capacity, the focus on total supply chain management, will more than offset the challenges. 2003 will be the reverse of conventional wisdom about IBM. It will be growth, aided by the acquisitions, and profit improvements that will offset weakness in pension and IP income. IBM can grow revenue and earnings in 2003 without growth in IT spending. However, as I also said back in November, most analysts in fact are forecasting modest growth in IT spending. If that happens, the current Street average estimates, with high single-digit revenue growth and Earnings Per Share growth, are still reasonable. Now Hervey and I will take your questions. Thanks, John. Now, if you'll all go to the next chart, you'll find an index of all our slides that may be helpful during the Q&A. And as John mentioned, we also have a few supplemental charts. Before I turn the call over to the operator to give you polling instructions, let me make my usual request that you refrain from multi-part questions, to give others some time. As always, we are on a tight schedule.
- -1- -------------------------------------------------------- IBM 4Q 2002 Earnings Presentation January 2003
- -2- Certain comments made in this presentation may be characterized as forward looking under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Those statements involve a number of factors that could cause actual results to differ materially. Additional information concerning these factors is contained in the Company's filing with the SEC. Copies are available from the SEC, from the IBM web site, or from IBM Investor Relations.
- -3- [IBM LOGO]
- -4- FOCUSED INVESTMENT FOR GROWTH -------------------------------------------------- Research & Development: $5B Capital Expenditures: $5B Acquisitions: $5B / / Leading Products / / Technology: / / Services: -WebSphere -300mm -PwCC -DB2 -Mainspring -Servers / / Services: -Storage Systems -Strategic Outsourcing / / Software: -ASIC -Informix -ACCESS360 / / Emerging Growth Areas: / / Global Financing -CrossWorlds -Trellisoft -e-Sourcing -Holosofx -Grid -Metamerge -Autonomic -Linux -Life Sciences
- -5- IBM 4Q 2002 FINANCIAL SUMMARY CONTINUING OPERATIONS (INCL PwCC) ------------------------------------------------------------------ As Included Street Reported Charges Average --------- -------- ---------- Revenue $23.7B $23.2B Expense 6.5B $614M (1) 5.5B (40M) (2) EPS $1.11 $0.23 $1.34 $1.30 (1) PwCC transition charges and deal proceeds (2) Update of estimated reserves associated with 2Q actions
- -6-
- -7-
- -8-
- -9- IBM EXPENSE SUMMARY - AS REPORTED (CONTINUING OPERATIONS ------------------------------------- NM = NOT MEANINGFUL * Rounding
- -10- IBM CASH FLOW ----------------- * Excludes Fixed Assets
- -11- IBM BALANCE SHEET ----------------- ($B) Dec Dec Dec 2000 2001 2002 ---- ---- ---- - -------------------------------------------------------- Cash 3.7 6.4 6.0 - -------------------------------------------------------- Core Assets* 45.0 46.0 56.4 Global Fin. Assets* 39.6 35.9 34.1 ---- ---- ---- Total Assets 88.3 88.3 96.5 Other Liabilities 39.1 37.5 47.7 - -------------------------------------------------------- Core Debt 1.1 1.6 2.2 Global Fin. Debt 27.5 25.5 23.8 ---- ---- ---- - -------------------------------------------------------- Total Debt 28.6 27.2 26.0 ---- ---- ---- Total Liabilities 67.7 64.7 73.7 Equity 20.6 23.6 22.8 - -------------------------------------------------------- Core Debt/Cap 6% 7% 10% Global Fin. Leverage 6.6 6.8 6.9 - -------------------------------------------------------- *Excluding Cash
- -12- GLOBAL SERVICES ----------------------- Revenue $10.6B, +13% @CC Services +15% Signings $ 18B Maintenance 0% Estimated Backlog $112B // Revenue growth: / / Business Consulting Services - Strategic Outsourcing: 0% - Integration of PwCC - Integrated Technology Services: 1% - Significant win-backs - Business Consulting Services: 52% / / On Demand - Excluding PwCC: -4% - Blue Typhoon technology - Americas leading BCS recovery - JP Morgan contract IGS WW Contract Signings [GRAPHIC OMITTED] / / Longer-Term / / Shorter-Term "Omitted graphic is available on IBM's website (www.ibm.com)."
- -13- eSERVERS AND STORAGE ------------------------------------------------- Revenue $4.2B, -1% yr/yr @CC Revenue Share GP% ------- ----- --- zSeries -4% = + MIPS up 13% Linux up over 45% yr/yr pSeries Flat + + New P650 midrange strength - sold out iSeries -13% = - Upcoming on-demand announcement xSeries +14% ++ + High-end strength Shark +5% + + Larger footprints - Terabytes up nearly 70% yr/yr Tape Storage -17% = +
- -14- PERSONAL AND PRINTING SYSTEMS - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Revenue $3.0B, Flat yr/yr @CC / / 4Q segment profit of $47M, up $64M yr/yr - Full year profitable - up over $210M yr/yr / / Full year revenue down 9% yr/yr - Full year PC gross margin flat - 4Q PC gross margin - up 3 pts yr/yr - up 2 pts qtr/qtr / / Strong contributor of cash - 4Q and full year / / Improved variable cost model - Supply chain benefits - operational efficiencies - Continued focus on cost / expense / assets
- -15- TECHNOLOGY - CONTINUING OPERATIONS -------------------------------------- Segment revenue $1.2B, -20% yr/yr / / Segment profit of $42M, improved $26M yr/yr and $59M qtr/qtr / / External OEM revenue was $800M, down 12% yr/yr > OEM Logic revenue of $597M, up 35% yr/yr > Exited display and card manufacturing businesses, revenue down 50% yr/yr - $275M / / Good start for our new Engineering and Technology Services / / Microelectronics gross margin improved both yr/yr and qtr/qtr / / 300 mm plant ramping volume as planned / / Leveraging our technology investments > AMD, Sony/Toshiba, Chartered
- -16- SOFTWARE ------------ Revenue $3.8B, flat as report, -2% @ cc
- -17- 2002 - EXECUTING ON STRONG LEADERSHIP INITIATIVES Maximize return to shareholders - Organic growth - Acquisition/Divestiture - Stock buyback and dividends - Cost/Expense reduction Maintain industry leadership - Technology - Open Standards Provide integrated customer solutions
- -18- [IBM LOGO]
- -S1- IBM GEOGRAPHIC REVENUE (CONTINUING OPERATIONS) * Continuing Operations
- -S2- CURRENCY: YEAR-TO-YEAR COMPARISON QUARTERLY AVERAGES PER US$ Negative Yr/Yr growth signifies a translation hurt
- -S3- TECHNOLOGY External Revenue ($M) [GRAPH] Segment Profit ($M) [GRAPH] * Before 2Q actions "Omitted graphic is available on IBM's website (www.ibm.com)."
- -S4- *Excludes Fixed Assets **Rounding

EXHIBIT 99.3 ATTACHMENT III BY-LAWS of INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION Adopted April 29, 1958 As Amended Through January 1, 2003
TABLE OF CONTENTS ARTICLE I PAGE Definitions 1 ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS SEC. 1. Place of Meetings 1 SEC. 2. Annual Meetings 1 SEC. 3. Special Meetings 2 SEC. 4. Notice of Meetings 2 SEC. 5. Quorum 2 SEC. 6. Organization 3 SEC. 7. Items of Business 3 SEC. 8. Voting 4 SEC. 9. List of Stockholders 5 SEC. 10. Inspectors of Election 5 ARTICLE III BOARD OF DIRECTORS SEC. 1. General Powers 6 SEC. 2. Number; Qualifications; Election; Term of Office 6 SEC. 3. Place of Meetings 6 SEC. 4. First Meeting 6 SEC. 5. Regular Meetings 6 SEC. 6. Special Meetings 6 SEC. 7. Notice of Meetings 6 SEC. 8. Quorum and Manner of Acting 7 SEC 9. Organization 7 SEC. 10. Resignations 7 SEC. 11. Vacancies 7 SEC. 12. Retirement of Directors 7 - i -
ARTICLE IV EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMITTEES SEC. 1. Executive Committee 8 SEC. 2. Powers of the Executive Committee 8 SEC. 3. Meetings of the Executive Committee 8 SEC. 4. Quorum and Manner of Acting of the Executive Committee 9 SEC. 5. Other Committees 9 SEC. 6. Changes in Committees; Resignations; Removals; Vacancies 10 ARTICLE V OFFICERS SEC. 1. Number and Qualifications 10 SEC. 2. Resignations 10 SEC. 3. Removal 11 SEC. 4. Vacancies 11 SEC. 5. Chairman of the Board 11 SEC. 6. Vice Chairman of the Board 11 SEC. 7. President 11 SEC. 8. Designated Officers 12 SEC. 9. Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents 12 SEC. 10. Treasurer 12 SEC. 11. Secretary 13 SEC. 12. Controller 14 SEC. 13. Compensation 14 - ii -
ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC. SEC. 1. Execution of Contracts 14 SEC. 2. Loans 14 SEC. 3. Checks, Drafts, etc 15 SEC. 4. Deposits 15 SEC. 5. General and Special Bank Accounts 15 SEC. 6. Indemnification 15 ARTICLE VII SHARES SEC. 1. Stock Certificates 16 SEC. 2. Books of Account and Record of Stockholders 16 SEC. 3. Transfers of Stock 16 SEC. 4. Regulations 17 SEC. 5. Fixing of Record Date 17 SEC. 6. Lost, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates 17 SEC. 7. Inspection of Records 18 SEC. 8. Auditors 18 ARTICLE VIII OFFICES SEC. 1. Principal Office 18 SEC. 2. Other Offices 18 ARTICLE IX Waiver of Notice 18 - iii -
ARTICLE X Fiscal Year 19 ARTICLE XI Seal 19 ARTICLE XII Amendments 19 - iv -
BY-LAWS OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS In these By-laws, and for all purposes hereof, unless there be something in the subject or context inconsistent therewith: (a) 'Corporation' shall mean International Business Machines Corporation. (b) 'Certificate of Incorporation' shall mean the restated Certificate of Incorporation as filed on May 27, 1992, together with any and all amendments and subsequent restatements thereto. (c) `Board' shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation. (d) 'stockholders' shall mean the stockholders of the Corporation. (e) 'Chairman of the Board', 'Vice Chairman of the Board', 'Chairman of the Executive Committee', 'Chief Executive Officer,' 'Chief Financial Officer', 'Chief Accounting Officer', 'President', 'Executive Vice President', 'Senior Vice President', 'Vice President', 'Treasurer', 'Secretary', or 'Controller', as the case may be, shall mean the person at any given time occupying the particular office with the Corporation. ARTICLE II MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS SECTION 1. Place of Meetings. Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place either within or outside the State of New York as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the notice of any such meeting. SECTION 2. Annual Meetings. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Tuesday of April of each year, if not a legal holiday, or, if such day shall be a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday. If any annual meeting shall not be held on the day designated herein, or if the directors to be elected at such annual 1
meeting shall not have been elected thereat or at any adjournment thereof, the Board shall forthwith call a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors to be held as soon thereafter as convenient and give notice thereof as provided in these By-laws in respect of the notice of an annual meeting of the stockholders. At such special meeting the stockholders may elect the directors and transact other business with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting of the stockholders duly called and held. SECTION 3. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the stockholders, unless otherwise provided by law, may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board. SECTION 4. Notice of Meetings. Notice of each meeting of the stockholders, annual or special, shall be given in the name of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President or the Secretary. Such notice shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the date and hour when and the place where it is to be held. A copy thereof shall be duly delivered or transmitted to all stockholders of record entitled to vote at such meeting, and all stockholders of record who, by reason of any action proposed to be taken at such meeting, would be entitled to have their stock appraised if such action were taken, not less than ten or more than sixty days before the day on which the meeting is called to be held. If mailed, such copy shall be directed to each stockholder at the address listed on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, or if the stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary a written request that notices be mailed to some other address, it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request. Nevertheless, notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall waive notice thereof as hereinafter provided in Article IX of these By-laws. Except when expressly required by law, notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders need not be given nor shall publication of notice of any annual or special meeting thereof be required. SECTION 5. Quorum. Except as otherwise provided by law, at all meetings of the stockholders, the presence of holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power, in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting or any adjournment or adjournments thereof, a majority in voting interest of those present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, or, in the absence of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside at, or to act as secretary of, such meeting, may adjourn such meeting from time to time without further notice, other than by announcement at the meeting at which such adjournment shall be taken, until a quorum shall be present thereat. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. 2
SECTION 6. Organization. At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or if the Chairman of the Board, the President, and all Vice Chairmen of the Board shall be absent therefrom, an Executive Vice President, or if the Chairman of the Board, the President, all Vice Chairmen of the Board and all Executive Vice Presidents shall be absent therefrom, a Senior Vice President shall act as chairman. The Secretary, or, if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting or unable to act, the person whom the Chairman of such meeting shall appoint secretary of such meeting shall act as secretary of such meeting and keep the minutes thereof. SECTION 7. Items of Business. The items of business at all meetings of the stockholders shall be, insofar as applicable, as follows: -- Call to order. -- Proof of notice of meeting or of waiver thereof. -- Appointment of inspectors of election, if necessary. -- A quorum being present. -- Reports. -- Election of directors. -- Other business specified in the notice of the meeting. -- Voting. -- Adjournment. Any items of business not referred to in the foregoing may be taken up at the meeting as the chairman of the meeting shall determine. No other business shall be transacted at any annual meeting of stockholders, except business as may be: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (including stockholder proposals included in the Corporation's proxy materials under Rule 14a-8 of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) a proper subject for the meeting which is timely submitted by a stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting who complies fully with the notice requirements set forth below. For business to be properly submitted by a stockholder before any annual meeting under subparagraph (iii) above, a stockholder must give timely notice in writing of such business to the Secretary of the Corporation. To be considered timely, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal 3
executive offices of the Corporation not less than 120 calendar days nor more than 150 calendar days before the date of the Corporation's proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the prior year's annual meeting. However, if no annual meeting was held in the previous year, or if the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated at the time of the previous year's proxy statement, a stockholder's notice must be received by the Secretary not later than 60 days before the date the Corporation commences mailing of its proxy materials in connection with the applicable annual meeting. A stockholder's notice to the Secretary to submit business to an annual meeting of stockholders shall set forth: (i) the name and address of the stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of stock held of record and beneficially by such stockholder, (iii) the name in which all such shares of stock are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, (iv) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, (v) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions intended to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (vi) any personal or other material interest of the stockholder in the business to be submitted, and (vii) all other information relating to the proposed business which may be required to be disclosed under applicable law. In addition, a stockholder seeking to submit such business at the meeting shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation. The chairman of the meeting shall determine all matters relating to the efficient conduct of the meeting, including, but not limited to, the items of business, as well as the maintenance of order and decorum. The chairman shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare that any putative business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 7, in which case such business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, a stockholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation's proxy materials shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14a-8 under Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. SECTION 8. Voting. Except as otherwise provided by law, each holder of record of shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for every share of such stock standing in the stockholder's name on the record of stockholders of the Corporation: (a) on the date fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of Article VII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting, or 4
(b) if such record date shall not have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting shall have been given, or (c) if such record date shall not have been so fixed and if no notice of such meeting shall have been given, then at the time of the call to order of such meeting. Any vote on stock of the Corporation at any meeting of the stockholders may be given by the stockholder of record entitled thereto in person or by proxy appointed by such stockholder or by the stockholder's attorney thereunto duly authorized and delivered or transmitted to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated in the order of business for turning in proxies. At all meetings of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be present, all matters (except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws) shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat. Unless required by law, or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by the stockholder's proxy as such, if there be such proxy. SECTION 9. List of Stockholders. A list, certified by the Secretary, of the stockholders of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be produced at any meeting of the stockholders upon the request of any stockholder of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws. SECTION 10. Inspectors of Election. Prior to the holding of each annual or special meeting of the stockholders, two inspectors of election to serve thereat shall be appointed by the Board, or, if the Board shall not have made such appointment, by the Chairman of the Board. If there shall be a failure to appoint inspectors, or if, at any such meeting, any inspector so appointed shall be absent or shall fail to act or the office shall become vacant, the chairman of the meeting may, and at the request of a stockholder present in person and entitled to vote at such meeting shall, appoint such inspector or inspectors of election, as the case may be, to act thereat. The inspectors of election so appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting, with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability, and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them. Such inspectors of election shall take charge of the polls, and, after the voting on any question, shall make a certificate of the results of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall act as an inspector of an election of directors. Inspectors need not be stockholders. 5
ARTICLE III BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECTION 1. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board. The Board may exercise all such authority and powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. SECTION 2. Number; Qualifications; Election; Term of Office. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be twelve, but the number thereof may be increased to not more than twenty-five, or decreased to not less than nine, by amendment of these By-laws. The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders. At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the persons receiving a plurality of the votes at such election shall be elected. Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of the stockholders which shall be held next after the election of such director and until a successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until death, or until the director shall have resigned as hereinafter provided in Section 10 of this Article III. SECTION 3. Place of Meetings. Meetings of the Board shall be held at such place either within or outside State of New York as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the notice of any such meeting. SECTION 4. First Meeting. The Board shall meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business, on the same day the annual meeting of stockholders is held. Notice of such meeting need not be given. Such meeting may be held at any other time or place which shall be specified in a notice thereof given as hereinafter provided in Section 7 of this Article III. SECTION 5. Regular Meetings. Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at times and dates fixed by the Board or at such other times and dates as the Chairman of the Board shall determine and as shall be specified in the notice of such meetings. Notice of regular meetings of the Board need not be given except as otherwise required by law or these By-laws. SECTION 6. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairman of the Board. SECTION 7. Notice of Meetings. Notice of each special meeting of the Board (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required) shall be given by the Secretary as hereinafter provided in this Section 7, in which notice shall be stated the time, place and, if required by law or these By-laws, the purposes of such meeting. Notice of each such meeting shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each director, by first-class mail, at least four days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent by facsimile transmission or comparable medium, or be delivered personally or by telephone, at least twenty-four hours before the time at which such meeting 6
is to be held. Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any director who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article IX of these By-laws. Any meeting of the Board shall be a legal meeting without notice thereof having been given, if all the directors of the Corporation then holding office shall be present thereat. SECTION 8. Quorum and Manner of Acting. A majority of the Board shall be present in person at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting. Participation in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence in person at a meeting. Except as otherwise expressly required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation and except also as specified in Section 1, Section 5, and Section 6 of Article IV, in Section 3 of Article V and in Article XII of these By-laws, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn such meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present thereat. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The directors shall act only as a Board and the individual directors shall have no power as such. SECTION 9. Organization. At each meeting of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or in the case of the Chairman's absence therefrom, the President, or in the case of the President's absence therefrom, a Vice Chairman, or in the case of the absence of all such persons, another director chosen by a majority of directors present, shall act as chairman of the meeting and preside thereat. The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof. SECTION 10. Resignations. Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. SECTION 11. Vacancies. Any vacancy in the Board, whether arising from death, resignation, an increase in the number of directors or any other cause, may be filled by the Board. SECTION 12. Retirement of Directors. The Board may prescribe a retirement policy for directors on or after reaching a certain age, provided, however, that such 7
retirement shall not cut short the annual term for which any director shall have been elected by the stockholders. ARTICLE IV EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMITTEES SECTION 1. Executive Committee. The Board, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, may designate not less than four of the directors then in office to constitute an Executive Committee, each member of which unless otherwise determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board, shall continue to be a member of such Committee until the annual meeting of the stockholders which shall be held next after designation as a member of such Committee or until the earlier termination as a director. The Chief Executive Officer shall always be designated as a member of the Executive Committee. The Board may by resolution appoint one member as the Chairman of the Executive Committee who shall preside at all meetings of such Committee. In the absence of said Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all such meetings. In the absence of both the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all such meetings. In the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board, the President shall preside at all such meetings. In the absence of all such persons, a majority of the members of the Executive Committee present shall choose a chairman to preside at such meetings. The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof. SECTION 2. Powers of the Executive Committee. To the extent permitted by law, the Executive Committee may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of specified matters where such authority is delegated to it by the Board, and also, to the extent permitted by law, the Executive Committee shall have, and may exercise, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation (including the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but excluding the power to appoint a member of the Executive Committee) in such manner as the Executive Committee shall deem to be in the best interests of the Corporation and not inconsistent with any prior specific action of the Board. An act of the Executive Committee taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board. The Executive Committee shall render in the form of minutes a report of its several acts at each regular meeting of the Board and at any other time when so directed by the Board. SECTION 3. Meetings of the Executive Committee. Regular meetings of the Executive Committee shall be held at such times, on such dates and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Executive Committee, 8
of which regular meetings notice need not be given, or as shall be fixed by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or in the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee the Chief Executive Officer and specified in the notice of such meeting. Special meetings of the Executive Committee may be called by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or by the Chief Executive Officer. Notice of each such special meeting of the Executive Committee (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required), stating the time and place thereof shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each member of the Executive Committee, by first-class mail, at least four days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent by facsimile transmission or comparable medium, or be delivered personally or by telephone, at least twenty-four hours before the time at which such meeting is to be held; but notice need not be given to a member of the Executive Committee who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article IX of these By-laws, and any meeting of the Executive Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members of such Committee shall be present thereat. SECTION 4. Quorum and Manner of Acting of the Executive Committee. Four members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the members of the Executive Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum shall be present shall be the act of the Executive Committee. Participating in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence at a meeting of the Executive Committee. The members of the Executive Committee shall act only as a committee and individual members shall have no power as such. SECTION 5. Other Committees. The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate members of the Board to constitute other committees, which shall have, and may exercise, such powers as the Board may by resolution delegate to them, and shall in each case consist of such number of directors as the Board may determine; provided, however, that each such committee shall have at least three directors as members thereof. Such a committee may either be constituted for a specified term or may be constituted as a standing committee which does not require annual or periodic reconstitution. A majority of all the members of any such committee may determine its action and its quorum requirements and may fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Participating in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence at a meeting of such other committees. In addition to the foregoing, the Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, create a committee of indeterminate membership and duration and not subject to the limitations as to the membership, quorum and manner of meeting and acting prescribed in these By-laws, which committee, in the event of a major disaster or catastrophe or national emergency which renders the Board 9
incapable of action by reason of the death, physical incapacity or inability to meet of some or all of its members, shall have, and may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation (including, without limitation, the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it and the power to fill vacancies in the Board). An act of such committee taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board. SECTION 6. Changes in Committees; Resignations; Removals; Vacancies. The Board shall have power, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, at any time to change or remove the members of, to fill vacancies in, and to discharge any committee created pursuant to these By-laws, either with or without cause. Any member of any such committee may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any vacancy in any committee, whether arising from death, resignation, an increase in the number of committee members or any other cause, shall be filled by the Board in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for the original appointment of the members of such committee. ARTICLE V OFFICERS SECTION 1. Number and Qualifications. The officers of the Corporation shall include the Chairman of the Board, and may include one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, the President, one or more Vice Presidents (one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice Presidents or as Senior Vice Presidents or by other designations), the Treasurer, the Secretary and the Controller. Officers shall be elected from time to time by the Board, each to hold office until a successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified, or until death, or until resignation as hereinafter provided in Section 2 of this Article V, or until removed as hereinafter provided in Section 3 of this Article V. SECTION 2. Resignations. Any officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall become effective upon its receipt; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. 10
SECTION 3. Removal. Any officer of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by a resolution adopted by a majority of the Board at any meeting of the Board. SECTION 4. Vacancies. A vacancy in any office, whether arising from death, resignation, removal or any other cause, may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term of office which shall be vacant, in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for the regular election or appointment to such office. SECTION 5. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at each meeting of the stockholders and of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board. The Chairman may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By- laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it. The Chairman of the Board, when there is no President or in the absence or incapacity of the President, shall perform all the duties and functions and exercise all the powers of the President. SECTION 6. Vice Chairman of the Board. Each Vice Chairman of the Board shall assist the Chairman of the Board and have such other duties as may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The Vice Chairman may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it. SECTION 7. President. The President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The President may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered, and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it; and, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of President. The President shall in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the Board, perform all the duties and functions and exercise all the powers of the Chairman of the Board. 11
SECTION 8. Designated Officers. (a) Chief Executive Officer. Either the Chairman of the Board, or the President, as the Board of Directors may designate, shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The officer so designated shall have, in addition to the powers and duties applicable to the office set forth in Section 5 or 7 of this Article V, general and active supervision over the business and affairs of the Corporation and over its several officers, agents, and employees, subject, however, to the control of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect, be an ex officio member of all committees of the Board (except the Audit Committee, the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee, and committees specifically empowered to fix or approve the Chief Executive Officer's compensation or to grant or administer bonus, option or other similar plans in which the Chief Executive Officer is eligible to participate), and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the position of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board. (b) Other Designated Officers. The Board of Directors may designate officers to serve as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and other such designated positions and to fulfill the responsibilities of such designated positions in addition to their duties as officers as set forth in this Article V. SECTION 9. Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents. Each Executive and Senior Vice President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President. Each Vice President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or a Senior Vice President. Any Vice President may sign certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws. SECTION 10. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall: (a) have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all the funds and securities of the Corporation, and may invest the same in any securities, may open, maintain and close accounts for effecting any and all purchase, sale, investment and lending transactions in securities of any and all kinds for and on behalf of the Corporation or any employee pension or benefit plan fund or other fund established by the Corporation, as may be permitted by law; (b) keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation;
(c) deposit all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board or the Executive Committee; (d) receive, and give receipts for, moneys due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever; (e) disburse the funds of the Corporation and supervise the investment of its funds, taking proper vouchers therefor; (f) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an account of all transactions as Treasurer; and (g) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President. SECTION 11. Secretary. The Secretary shall: (a) keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for the purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the Executive Committee and other committees of the Board and the stockholders; (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws and as required by law; (c) be custodian of the records and the seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation and affix and attest the seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its seal; (d) see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and (e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President. 13
SECTION 12. Controller. The Controller shall: (a) have control of all the books of account of the Corporation; (b) keep a true and accurate record of all property owned by it, of its debts and of its revenues and expenses; (c) keep all accounting records of the Corporation (other than the accounts of receipts and disbursements and those relating to the deposits of money and other valuables of the Corporation, which shall be kept by the Treasurer); (d) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and (e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Controller and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President. SECTION 13. Compensation. The compensation of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that the Board may delegate to a committee the power to fix or approve the compensation of any officers. An officer of the Corporation shall not be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of being also a director of the Corporation; but any such officer who shall also be a director shall not have any vote in the determination of the amount of compensation paid to such officer. ARTICLE VI CONTRACTS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC. SECTION 1. Execution of Contracts. Except as otherwise required by law or these By-laws, any contract or other instrument may be executed and delivered in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by any officer (including any assistant officer) of the Corporation. The Board or the Executive Committee may authorize any agent or employee to execute and deliver any contract or other instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board or such Committee, as the case may be, may by resolution determine. SECTION 2. Loans. Unless the Board shall otherwise determine, the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or any Vice President, acting together with the Treasurer or the Secretary, may effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other 14
institution, or from any firm, corporation or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes, bonds or other certificates or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, but in making such loans or advances no officer or officers shall mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or transfer any securities or other property of the Corporation, except when authorized by resolution adopted by the Board. SECTION 3. Checks, Drafts, etc. All checks, drafts, bills of exchange or other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by such persons and in such manner as shall from time to time be authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee or authorized by the Treasurer acting together with either the General Manager of an operating unit or a nonfinancial Vice President of the Corporation, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances. SECTION 4. Deposits. All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board or the Executive Committee may from time to time designate or as may be designated by any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive Committee. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation may be endorsed, assigned and delivered by any officer, employee or agent of the Corporation. SECTION 5. General and Special Bank Accounts. The Board or the Executive Committee may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board or the Executive Committee may designate or as may be designated by any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive Committee. The Board or the Executive Committee may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these By-laws, as it may deem expedient. SECTION 6. Indemnification. The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as in effect at any time, indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to an action or proceeding whether civil or criminal (including an action or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation or any other corporation of any type or kind, domestic or foreign, or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, for which any director or officer of the Corporation served in any capacity at the request of the Corporation), by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate was a director or officer of the Corporation, or served such other corporation, partnership, joint 15
venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise in any capacity, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys' fees actually and necessarily incurred as a result of such action or proceeding, or any appeal therein. Such indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid advances of any expenses incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law in effect at any time. Indemnification shall be deemed to be 'permitted' within the meaning of the first sentence hereof if it is not expressly prohibited by applicable law as in effect at the time. ARTICLE VII SHARES SECTION 1. Stock Certificates. The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares. Each owner of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as shall be approved by the Board, certifying the number of shares of stock of the Corporation owned. To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates of stock shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary and sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile, engraved or printed); provided, however, that where any such certificate is signed by a registrar, other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary, and transfer agent or a transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation upon such certificates may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer, transfer agent or transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation ceases to be such officer, transfer agent, or transfer clerk before such certificates shall be issued, they may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if they were still such officer, transfer agent or transfer clerk at the date of their issue. SECTION 2. Books of Account and Record of Stockholders. There shall be kept at the office of the Corporation correct books of account of all its business and transactions, minutes of the proceedings of stockholders, Board, and Executive Committee, and a book to be known as the record of stockholders, containing the names and addresses of all persons who are stockholders, the number of shares of stock held, and the date when the stockholder became the owner of record thereof. SECTION 3. Transfers of Stock. Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made on the record of stockholders of the Corporation only upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by an attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or with a transfer agent or transfer clerk, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, provided such shares are represented by a certificate, or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power and the payment of all taxes thereon. The person in whose names shares of stock shall stand on the 16
record of stockholders of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation. Whenever any transfers of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent or transfer clerk, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer. SECTION 4. Regulations. The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with these By-laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the Corporation. It may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents or one or more transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require all certificates of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them. SECTION 5. Fixing of Record Date. The Board shall fix a time not exceeding sixty nor less than ten days prior to the date then fixed for the holding of any meeting of the stockholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of the stockholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, as the time as of which the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time, and no others, shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent, as the case may be. The Board may fix a time not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend or the making of any distribution or the allotment of rights to subscribe for securities of the Corporation, or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interests arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock or other securities, as the record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, allotment, rights or interests, and in such case only the stockholders of record at the time so fixed shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, allotment, rights or interests. SECTION 6. Lost, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates. The holder of any certificate representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction or mutilation of such certificate, and the Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it which the owner thereof shall allege to have been lost or destroyed or which shall have been mutilated, and the Corporation may, in its discretion, require such owner or the owner's legal representatives to give to the Corporation a bond in such sum, limited or unlimited, and in such form and with such surety or sureties as the Board in its absolute discretion shall determine, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate, or the issuance of such new certificate. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation, in its absolute discretion, may refuse to issue any such new certificate, except pursuant to legal proceedings under the laws of the State of New York. 17
SECTION 7. Inspection of Records. The record of stockholders and minutes of the proceedings of stockholders shall be available for inspection, within the limits and subject to the conditions and restrictions prescribed by applicable law. SECTION 8. Auditors. The Board shall employ an independent public or certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who shall act as auditors in making examinations of the consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The auditors shall certify that the annual financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and shall report on such financial statements to the stockholders and directors of the Corporation. The Board's selection of auditors shall be presented for ratification by the stockholders at the annual meeting. Directors and officers, when acting in good faith, may rely upon financial statements of the Corporation represented to them to be correct by the officer of the Corporation having charge of its books of account, or stated in a written report by the auditors fairly to reflect the financial condition of the Corporation. ARTICLE VIII OFFICES SECTION 1. Principal Office. The principal office of the Corporation shall be at such place in the Town of North Castle, County of Westchester and State of New York as the Board shall from time to time determine. SECTION 2. Other Offices. The Corporation may also have an office or offices other than said principal office at such place or places as the Board shall from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE IX WAIVER OF NOTICE Whenever under the provisions of any law of the State of New York, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws or any resolution of the Board or any committee thereof, the Corporation or the Board or any committee thereof is authorized to take any action after notice to the stockholders, directors or members of any such committee, or after the lapse of a prescribed period of time, such action may be taken without notice and without the lapse of any period of time, if, at any time before or after such action shall be completed, such notice or lapse of time shall be waived by the person or persons entitled to said notice or entitled to participate in 18
the action to be taken, or, in the case of a stockholder, by an attorney thereunto authorized. Attendance at a meeting requiring notice by any person or, in the case of a stockholder, by the stockholder's attorney, agent or proxy, shall constitute a waiver of such notice on the part of the person so attending, or by such stockholder, as the case may be. ARTICLE X FISCAL YEAR The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the thirty-first day of December in each year. ARTICLE XI SEAL The Seal of the Corporation shall consist of two concentric circles with the IBM logotype appearing in bold face type within the inner circle and the words 'International Business Machines Corporation' appearing within the outer circle. ARTICLE XII AMENDMENTS These By-laws may be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the stockholders at any annual or special meeting, if the notice thereof mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one of the purposes of such meeting. These By-laws, subject to the laws of the State of New York, may also be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board given at any meeting, if the notice thereof mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one of the purposes of such meeting. 19
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION The undersigned does hereby certify that the foregoing is a true and complete copy of the By-laws of International Business Machines Corporation, including all amendments thereto, and the same is in force at the date hereof. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto subscribed my name and affixed the seal of said Corporation, this day of 2003. ____________________________ Title: ____________________________ 20


