FILE:IBM/IBM-8K-20041025152726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 (Regulation FD Disclosure)
Attachment I of this Form 8-K contains information that is being posted on IBM's IR website (www.ibm.com/investor/). All of the information in Attachment I is hereby filed.
 
IBM's web site (www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including financial and other information for investors (www.ibm.com/investor/). IBM encourages investors to visit its various web sites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
ATTACHMENT I
 
Institutional investors have asked questions on IBM's third quarter earnings release.  Because many of these topics are relevant to a broader audience, we felt it useful to address the most frequently asked questions.  A few questions were answered during the earnings webcast on October 18th.  The others are posted below for the benefit of all investors.
 
Current Pricing Environment
 
Could you shed some light on the current pricing environment?  It would seem that highly competitive pricing has ebbed a little bit but please comment on where you're seeing things toughest and where things have eased.
 
 
 
 
 
Impact of Currency on Pricing
 
The dollar has weakened over the last several quarters.  Have currency shifts had an impact on pricing outside the U.S?  Can you hazard a guess as to how much this has impacted constant currency top line growth in 2003 and 2004?
 
       
 
 
 
Microelectronics
 
What is the strategic rationale for being in the foundry business?  Does IBM plan to continue to build state-of-the-art fabs?
 
       
 
As the industry shifts performance from focusing on ever increasing frequencies to focusing on better systems level integration, IBM is uniquely positioned with both system skills and semiconductor skills to lead in this space.
 
IBM does not comment on any plans for future manufacturing facilities.
 


