FILE:IBM/IBM-8K-20120925165839.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02(b) (Departure of Named Executive Officer and Director) and
Item 5.02(e) (Compensatory Arrangement for Named Executive Officer)
 
On September 25, 2012, the company announced that Virginia M. Rometty, president and chief executive officer of IBM, has been elected chairman of the IBM board of directors effective October 1, 2012.  Samuel J. Palmisano will no longer serve as an officer or director of the company effective October 1, 2012, and he will be a Senior Advisor to the company from October 1, 2012 through November 30, 2012.  Mr. Palmisano will retire from the company effective December 1, 2012. The press release is Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 8-K.
 
The IBM Board has approved certain arrangements for Mr. Palmisano, as set forth in the letter attached as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Senior Advisor
 
Mr. Palmisano will be employed by the company as a Senior Advisor for two months prior to his retirement.  His existing compensation and benefits eligibility under the company's programs will remain unchanged. Those security practices of the company for Mr. Palmisano as chairman, described in the Summary Compensation Table Narrative in IBM's 2012 Proxy Statement, will continue to be provided to Mr. Palmisano while he remains an IBM employee and shall cease upon his retirement.
 
Performance Share Unit Awards
 
As described in the Compensation Discussion and Analysis in IBM's 2012 Proxy Statement, the IBM board previously approved a 2012 long-term incentive award for Mr. Palmisano comprised of 2012-2014 Performance Share Units (PSUs); this award was granted on June 8, 2012. In addition, Mr. Palmisano has outstanding PSU awards that were granted in 2010 and 2011. As explained in the Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative in the 2012 Proxy Statement, certain members of the senior leadership team (i.e., the Performance Team), including Mr. Palmisano, may be eligible to receive payouts of their full unvested PSU awards after departure from the company if certain criteria are met, including membership on the Performance Team and completion of at least one year of service during the PSU performance period.
 
With regard to the PSU awards granted to Mr. Palmisano in 2010 and 2011, the board has deemed satisfied the Performance Team requirement, and Mr. Palmisano has met the other criteria.  With regard to the PSU award granted to Mr. Palmisano in 2012, the board has deemed satisfied the Performance Team and one-year service requirements, and Mr. Palmisano has met the other criteria.
 
The board has approved his eligibility for continued vesting of these awards over the respective three-year performance periods; however, the payout for each award (delivered in IBM shares) will occur only if the performance goals are met, with the number of shares determined based on actual performance relative to pre-established targets.
 
Office
 
IBM has agreed to provide furnished office space with administrative support for Mr. Palmisano's use after retirement (consistent with past practice for retiring chief executive officers), until such time that he notifies the company that he no longer wishes to maintain the office.
 
Consulting Arrangement
 
After Mr. Palmisano's retirement from the company, he may be asked, from time to time, to provide services to the company as an independent contractor.  The fee for such services would be $20,000 per day for each day he provides four or more hours of services and $10,000 per day for each day that he provides less than four hours.
 
Not-for-profit Corporation
 
After Mr. Palmisano retires from the company, he expects to lead a not-for-profit corporation established to promote discussion and education related to global economics and business competitiveness. This organization is expected to support independent scholarship and bring together key stakeholders and other related public policy efforts with regard to global integration of business.  Consistent with the company's philanthropic efforts, IBM expects to make a $4 million tax deductible contribution to this organization.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
IBM's web site (www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including financial and other information for investors (www.ibm.com/investor/). IBM encourages investors to visit its various web sites from time to time, as information is updated and new information is posted.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
ARMONK, N.Y., September 25, 2012 . . .  The IBM (NYSE: IBM) board of directors today elected Virginia M. Rometty chairman of the board, effective October 1, 2012.  Mrs. Rometty succeeds Samuel J. Palmisano, who is stepping down from the board effective October 1, 2012.
 
Mr. Palmisano will become Senior Adviser to the company until he retires on December 1, 2012.  As of October 1, 2012, Mrs. Rometty's title will be IBM chairman, president and chief executive officer.
 
Mrs. Rometty, 55, is currently IBM's president and chief executive officer.  She succeeded Mr. Palmisano as IBM's ninth CEO in January of this year, after holding senior leadership positions in IBM's services, sales, strategy and marketing units.  Mrs. Rometty led the successful integration of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting  the largest acquisition in professional services history, building a team of more than 100,000 business consultants and services experts.  She became a director of IBM in January.
 
Mr. Palmisano, 61, became IBM chief executive officer in 2002 and chairman of the board in 2003.  During his tenure, IBM transformed its product and services portfolio, exiting commoditizing businesses, including PCs, printers and hard disk drives, and greatly increasing investments in analytics, cloud computing and other high-value businesses and technologies.  He has overseen the transformation of IBM from a multinational into a globally integrated enterprise.  During Mr. Palmisano's tenure as CEO, IBM created over $100 billion of total shareholder value.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
September 25, 2012
 
Mr. Samuel J. Palmisano
c/o IBM
New Orchard Road
Armonk, New York 10504
 
Dear Sam:
 
Your retirement from IBM comes with much admiration and appreciation for your 39 years of distinguished service to IBM.  This letter describes certain terms of your retirement from the Company.
 
As is the case with all retirees, any benefits payable to you in connection with your retirement will be paid or made available in accordance with the applicable terms of the employee benefit plans of the Company in which you participate.  As with all employees and retirees, the Company maintains its right to amend, modify or terminate its benefit plans and programs at any time and from time to time or to change its interpretation of such benefit plans and programs.
 
1.
             
Role Change and Retirement
.
 
(a)
                                 
In recognition of your wishes, you will no longer be Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company effective October 1, 2012.  Beginning on that date, you also will no longer serve as an officer or director of the Company, and you will remain an employee of the Company as Senior Advisor until your retirement.  You will retire from the Company effective December 1, 2012 ("Retirement Date").
 
(b)
                                
Until your Retirement Date, your existing compensation and benefits eligibility under the Company's programs, and the Company's security practices for you, will remain unchanged.
 
2.
             
Long-Term Performance Plan Awards
.
 
Pursuant to the terms and conditions of your outstanding Performance Share Unit Awards, your awards will continue to vest after separation of employment if certain criteria are met.
 
(a)
                                 
2010-2012 and 2011-2013 Performance Share Unit Awards
.  As of the Retirement Date and with the Board of Directors' approval, you will be deemed to have satisfied all criteria to be eligible for continued vesting of these awards, including being on the Performance Team; such awards shall continue to vest during the remainder of the applicable performance period.  These awards continue to be subject to all terms and conditions of each such award, including the terms and conditions for payout.
 
(b)
                                
2012-2014 Performance Share Unit Award
.  As of the Retirement Date and with the Board of Directors' approval, you will be deemed to have satisfied all criteria to be eligible for continued vesting of this award, including being on the Performance Team and the one-year service requirement; such award shall continue to vest during the remainder of the performance period.  This award continues to be subject to all terms and conditions of such award, including the terms and conditions for payout.
 
3.
             
Office
.
 
After your Retirement Date, the Company will provide you with a furnished office and one administrative assistant (consistent with past practice for retiring chief executive officers), until such time that you notify the Company that you no longer wish to maintain the office.
 
4.
             
Consulting/or Related IBM Business Services
.
 
After your Retirement Date, the Company may request, from time to time, that you provide services to the Company, which services must be approved in advance by the Company's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer ("Services").  Any Services you provide will be as an independent contractor of the Company.
 
If you provide Services, the following terms shall govern:
 
                 
The fee for such Services would be $20,000 per day for each day on which you provide four or more hours of Services and $10,000 per day for each day that you provide less than four hours of Services;
 
                 
The Company shall reimburse you for any reasonable actual travel and other expenses incurred in connection with providing the Services, and you may, with the prior approval of the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, travel on Company aircraft in the course of providing the Services; and
                 
The provision of Services by you shall not exceed 20% of the average level of services performed by you over the 36-month period immediately prior to your Retirement Date.
 
                 
Further, it is intended by the parties that this letter shall not further delay any payment to which you are entitled under an IBM employee benefit plan or agreement.
 
5.
             
Resolution of Disputes
.
 
Any dispute, claim or controversy you have arising out of the terms set forth in this letter shall be resolved by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer.  If you disagree with the decision rendered by the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, then the Executive Committee of the Board shall make a final and binding decision with respect to such dispute, claim or controversy
.
 
 
If you agree with the foregoing, please sign and date the enclosed copy of this letter in the space indicated below.
 


