FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20030715080135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
On July 15, 2003, Fifth Third Bancorp issued a press release announcing its earnings release for the second quarter of 2003. A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
This information, furnished under Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure, is also intended to be furnished under Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition, in accordance with SEC Release No. 33-8216.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
[LOGO] FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
 
 
News Release
 
 
 
 
Fifth Third Bancorp's second quarter earnings per diluted share were $.75, an increase of 10 percent over $.68 per diluted share for the same period in 2002. Second quarter net income totaled $437,488,000, an eight percent increase over second quarter 2002's net income of $404,077,000. Second quarter return on average assets (ROA) and return on average equity (ROE) were 2.02 percent and 19.9 percent, respectively, compared to 2.20 percent and 20.2 percent in 2002's second quarter. Fifth Third continues to maintain its commitment to a strong, flexible balance sheet evidenced by the second quarter 2003 capital ratio of 10.19 percent.
 
"We are extremely pleased to deliver solid financial results in a challenging environment," stated George A. Schaefer, Jr., President and CEO. "Earnings this quarter were highlighted by very strong loan growth throughout all of our markets, a stable net interest margin and credit quality that remains among the best in the industry. Our sales results this quarter are particularly gratifying given the concerns for a meaningful rebound in business activity and the difficulties presented by the lowest interest rates in 45 years. In times like these, our people truly make the difference and I would like to thank all of our employees for their hard work in attracting new relationships and delivering superior service to all of our customers."
 
"In June, Fifth Third's Board of Directors increased the quarterly cash dividend by 26 percent over the same period last year and 12 percent over the cash dividend declared last quarter. This quarter's dividend increase illustrates the importance we place on delivering shareholder value and follows our last dividend increase only nine months agoa pattern we have consistently followed over the years. We have always worked diligently to deliver solid investment returns to our shareholders."
 
"In March of this year, Fifth Third signed a Written Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and the State of Ohio, Department of Commerce to address and strengthen risk management processes and internal controls. We are continuing to work very hard and are making excellent progress in these areas. Fifth Third is committed to building a comprehensive enterprise-wide risk management function that compliments our local market operating model and allows us to effectively navigate in today's business environment. We believe these improvements in our infrastructure will better prepare us as we become a larger and more complex company."
Very Strong Loan and Deposit Growth, Balance Sheet Trends
 
Loan and lease demand exhibited very strong growth with average loans and leases increasing 12 percent on an annualized sequential basis and 13 percent over the same quarter last year. Better than expected middle- market and small business commercial loan originations and continued strength in direct installment lending highlight the second quarter balance sheet growth. Period-end commercial loan and lease balances increased by $960 million from last quarter, or 15 percent on an annualized sequential basis, on the strength of new customer additions and strong sales results in Cleveland, Chicago, Indianapolis and Detroit and modest increases in existing commercial line of credit utilization percentages across the footprint. Direct installment loan originations remained very strong and totaled $2.0 billion in the second quarter, compared to $1.7 billion last quarter, with balances increasing by 17 percent over the second quarter of last year and 25 percent on an annualized sequential basis. Fifth Third is continuing to devote significant focus on producing banking center based loan originations given the strong credit performance and attractive yields available in these products.
 
Commercial customer additions and retail sales momentum in most of our markets resulted in a surprisingly strong quarter of deposit growth for Fifth Third. Average interest checking balances and average demand deposit balances each increased 16 percent compared to last year's second quarter with average transaction account balances as a whole increasing 14 percent over the same quarter last year. Despite better equity market performance during the quarter, average demand deposits and interest checking balances increased by 22 percent and seven percent on an annualized sequential basis, respectively.
 
Net interest income on a fully-taxable equivalent basis increased nine percent over the same quarter last year due to strong earning asset growth and despite a 38 basis point (bp) decrease in net interest margin. Sequentially, net interest income on a fully-taxable equivalent basis increased by 18 percent on an annualized basis despite a five bp decline in net interest margin. The net interest margin has contracted in recent periods due to the absolute level of interest rates and the impact of higher origination volumes at lower market rates of interest. Overall, earning assets are continuing to reprice at lower market rates of interest with increased prepayment activity resulting in shorter asset durations and considerable cash flows from various asset classes. Although prepayments, sales and subsequent reinvestment of high coupon mortgage-backed securities contributed to the decrease in the net interest margin relative to last quarter, these actions serve to stabilize near and intermediate term net interest income performance trends and maintain Fifth Third's posture with regard to Board approved interest rate risk policy limits. Fifth Third expects that margin and net interest income trends in coming periods will depend upon the magnitude of loan demand, the speed of any interest rate changes and the magnitude of compression between margin and spread.
 
Fifth Third repurchased approximately 5.8 million shares of its common stock for a total of approximately $329 million in the second quarter of 2003. As of June 30, 2003, the authority under the repurchase plan approved by the Board of Directors in December 2001 had been completed with an additional 19.2 million shares remaining under a plan authorizing the repurchase of up to 20 million shares approved by the Board of Directors in March 2003.
 
Other Operating Income Advances 22 Percent
 
Recent strong business line revenue growth trends continued in the second quarter with total other operating income up 22 percent over the same quarter last year.
 
Fifth Third Processing Solutions, our Electronic Payment Processing subsidiary, delivered a 16 percent increase in revenues over the second quarter of last year. Comparisons to prior periods are impacted by a slowdown in transaction volume growth rates on the existing customer base reflective of current economic conditions and sluggish growth in the retail sector of the economy. Fifth Third Processing Solutions continues to realize strong sales momentum from the addition of new customer relationships in both its Merchant Services and Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) businesses. Significant new processing customers welcomed thus far in 2003 include, among others, T.G.I. Friday's, La Quinta Corporation, GNC Nutrition Centers, National Commerce Financial Corporation and May's Drug Stores, Inc. Fifth Third Processing Solutions now handles electronic processing for over 189,000 merchant locations and 1,400 financial institutions worldwide.
 
Successful sales of retail and commercial deposit accounts and corporate treasury management products fueled increases in deposit service revenues of 14 percent over the same quarter last year. The second quarter increase was highlighted by a 14 percent increase in retail deposit based revenues and a 14 percent increase in commercial deposit based revenues over the same quarter last year on the strength of Fifth Third's continuing focus on cross-sell initiatives, new customer relationships and the benefit of a lower interest rate environment.
 
Mortgage net service revenue totaled $92.8 million in the second quarter compared to $76.8 million last quarter and $10.2 million in 2002's second quarter. Inclusive of net realized securities gains/losses resulting from sales from a portfolio established to hedge against volatility related to the value of mortgage servicing rights, mortgage net service revenue in the second quarter totaled $94.6 million compared to $77.9 million last quarter and $45.8 million in 2002's second quarter. Mortgage originations totaled $4.9 billion in the second quarter versus $4.3 billion last quarter and $2.0 billion in the second quarter of last year. Fifth Third does not expect the current low-rate environment to continue in the long-term at which time the contribution of mortgage banking to total revenues will decline. Second quarter mortgage net service revenue was comprised of $136.3 million in total mortgage banking fees and loan sales, plus $1.8 million of gains on the sale of balance sheet securities from a portfolio established to hedge against volatility related to the value of mortgage servicing rights, plus $28.7 million of gains and mark-to-market adjustments on both settled and outstanding free-standing derivative financial instruments and less $72.2 million in net valuation adjustments and amortization on mortgage servicing rights. The sale of balance sheet securities, mark-to-market adjustments and settlement of free-standing derivative financial instruments and corresponding valuation adjustments resulted from movements in interest rates and the anticipated level of prepayment speeds on the mortgage servicing portfolio. Recent period increases in gains and mark-to-market adjustments on free standing derivatives have resulted from the increased use of free-standing derivatives rather than available-for-sale securities as part of Fifth Third's overall hedging strategy. The mortgage servicing asset, net of the valuation reserve, is $244.4 million at June 30, 2003, compared to $248.6 million last quarter and $414.5 million a year ago.
 
Investment Advisory revenues declined seven percent from the same quarter last year but increased 17 percent on an annualized basis from last quarter. The decrease in service revenue compared to the year ago quarter resulted primarily from market value declines mitigated in part by stronger institutional and private client asset management
 
sales. As equity market valuations continue to build upon recent momentum, revenue contributions from institutional and private client are expected to continue to increase. Fifth Third continues to focus its sales efforts on integrating services across business lines and working closely with retail and commercial team members to take advantage of a diverse and expanding customer base. Fifth Third Investment Advisors, among the largest money managers in the Midwest, has $31 billion in assets under management and $188 billion in assets under care.
 
Other service charges and fee revenue totaled $139.2 million in the second quarter, a one percent decline from the second quarter last year and a 12 percent decline from last quarter. Compared to the second quarter of last year, commercial banking revenues increased 12 percent, institutional fixed income trading and sales revenues increased 44 percent, cardholder fee revenue increased 22 percent and insurance revenue decreased 48 percent due to the fourth quarter 2002 sale of the property and casualty insurance agency product line operations. Other service charges and fee revenue comparisons to last quarter are impacted by seasonality factors in various revenue categories and the impact of prepayments on loan fees.
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
Second quarter operating expenses increased 15 percent over the same period last year and 11 percent on an annualized basis from last quarter. Comparisons to prior year periods are impacted by implications of growth in all of our markets and increases in spending related to the expansion and improvement of our sales force, growth of the retail banking platform, continuing investment in support personnel, process improvement, technology and infrastructure to support recent and future growth, increasing insurance and other employee benefit expenses and expenses related to certain third party consultant reviews. Third party consultant reviews of reconciliation activities and process evaluations associated with the March 26, 2003 Written Agreement entered into by Fifth Third Bancorp, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland and the State of Ohio, Department of Commerce, Division of Financial Institutions resulted in approximately $12.6 million in incremental expenses in the second quarter. Fifth Third expects third-party consultant expenses will return to more normalized levels for the remainder of 2003. Second quarter operating expenses are also impacted by a charge of $20.1 million related to the early retirement of approximately $200 million of Federal Home Loan Bank advances. Fifth Third continues to explore additional alternatives regarding the level and cost of various other sources of funds. Fifth Third's second quarter efficiency ratio stands at 43.5 percent compared to 44.5 percent last quarter and 43.5 percent in the second quarter of last year.
 
Fifth Third has concluded the review of the treasury clearing and other related settlement accounts that gave rise to the $82 million pre-tax ($53 million after-tax) charge-off realized in the third quarter of 2002. Fifth Third has expended considerable effort and internal resources and employed significant external resources with expertise in treasury operations in the review and reconstruction of these accounts as well as in the validation of the results. The conclusion of this process in the second quarter of 2003 has identified a $30.8 million pre-tax ($20.1 million after-tax) recovery, realized as a credit to other operating expenses. Based on activities performed by Fifth Third and independent third-party experts, including the completion of a third party review of all Bancorp account reconciliations, Fifth Third has concluded that there is no additional financial liability or additional recovery relating to these treasury clearing and other related settlement accounts.
 
Credit Quality
 
Credit quality metrics and trends were relatively stable in the second quarter with net charge-offs increasing by $12.8 million and nonaccrual loans and leases decreasing by $4.2 million from last quarter. Overall, the level of nonperforming loans and net charge-offs remain a small percentage of the total loan and lease portfolio. Nonperforming assets (NPAs) stand at 62 bp of total loans and leases and other real estate owned at June 30, 2003, compared to the 65 bp posted last quarter. Net charge-offs for the quarter were $77.5 million, compared to $64.7 million last quarter and $43.4 million in the second quarter of 2002. Commercial loan and lease net charge-offs totaled $44.3 million in the second quarter with the $18.0 million increase from last quarter largely attributable to two credits totaling $15.5 million. The second quarter provision for loan and lease losses totaled $108.9 million, compared to $84.8 million last quarter and $64.0 million in the same quarter last year, resulting in a $31.4 million increase in the credit loss reserve, remaining at 1.49 percent of total loans and leases outstanding. As a percentage of average loans and leases, second quarter net charge-offs were 64 bp, compared to 56 bp last quarter and 40 bp in 2002's second quarter.
 
Conference Call
 
Fifth Third will host a conference call to discuss these second quarter financial results at 9:30 a.m. (Eastern Time) today. Investors, analysts and other interested parties may dial into the conference call at 888-896-0863 for domestic access and 973-582-2703 for international access (passcode: Fifth Third). A replay of the conference call will be available until 5:00 p.m. July 22, 2003 by dialing 877-519-4471 for domestic access and 973-341-3080 for international access (passcode: 4032522#).
 
Corporate Profile
 
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Company has $88 billion in assets, operates 17 affiliates with 943 full-service Banking Centers, including 132 Bank Mart locations open seven days a week inside select grocery stores and 1,883 Jeanie ATMs in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee and West Virginia. The financial strength of Fifth Third's affiliate banks continues to be recognized by rating agencies with deposit ratings of AA- and Aa1 from Standard & Poor's and Moody's, respectively. Additionally, Fifth Third Bancorp continues to maintain the highest short-term ratings available at A-1+ and Prime-1 and is recognized by Moody's with one of the highest senior debt ratings for any U.S. bank holding company of Aa2. Fifth Third operates four main businesses: Retail, Commercial, Investment Advisors and Fifth Third Processing Solutions. Investor information and press releases can be viewed at www.53.com. Fifth Third's common stock is traded through the Nasdaq National Market System under the symbol "FITB."
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain," "pattern" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the
 
interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which we do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) legislative or regulatory changes or actions adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged; (7) changes and trends in the securities markets; (8) a delayed or incomplete resolution of regulatory issues; (9) the impact of reputational risk created by these developments on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity; and (10) the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings. We undertake no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release. Further information on other factors which could affect the financial results of Fifth Third are included in Fifth Third's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available free of charge at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov and/or from Fifth Third.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Summary of Credit Loss Experience
 
 
Nonperforming and Underperforming Assets
 
 
 


