FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20030606092425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1  Management Discussion of Trends
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the second quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
Service Income
In general, management expects growth trends in service income categories to be mixed. Specifically, by major category:
 
Electronic Payment Processing
Fifth Third expects that second quarter processing revenues will produce a mid-teen to twenty percent growth over the same quarter last year despite slowing transaction volume growth rates on the existing customer base. Increases in revenue from the year ago quarter are more indicative of continued momentum in attracting new significant relationships.
 
Investment Advisory
Management expects second quarter investment advisory revenues to be essentially flat to last quarter given the challenges of a difficult market. As equity market valuations continue to build upon recent positive momentum, Fifth Third expects increased revenue contributions in both private client and institutional services.
 
Other Services
Retail and commercial deposit account service revenues are expected to produce mid-teen percent year-over-year growth rates as Fifth Third has continued to generate new accounts in all of our markets and commercial service charges continue to benefit from a low rate environment. Commercial treasury management revenues are showing good year-over-year growth as our sales force continues to add new customers and deepen existing relationships with additional products and services.
 
Mortgage banking revenues are expected to increase from last quarter with origination levels benefiting from an unprecedented level of refinance activity. Fifth Third continues to maintain its posture with regard to hedging activity to manage the risk associated with impairment losses incurred on its mortgage servicing rights portfolio as a result of the current interest rate environment and corresponding prepayment speeds.
 
Expenses
 
 
Balance Sheet Trends and Net Interest Income
Management expects high single digit year-over-year percentage growth in net interest income over last year's second quarter. The second quarter net interest margin is expected to remain stable to last quarter with margin trends in future periods dependant upon the magnitude of loan demand, the path of interest rates in the economy and the magnitude of compression between margin and spread. The absolute level of interest rates is continuing to pose challenges with respect to the decreasing benefit of strong capital levels and low-cost deposits. Other balance sheet trends:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
With the general difficulty of the environment and conflicting asset quality trends, Fifth Third is realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics. Fifth Third's long history of low exposure limits, avoidance of national or sub-prime lending businesses, centralized credit risk management, and diversified portfolio position us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses. Commercial credit trends are expected to be somewhat stable with the level of charge-offs in the second quarter and the remainder of the year impacted by isolated weakness in a modest number of credits within the aircraft leasing portfolio. As of March 31, 2003, Fifth Third had total outstandings to commercial airline carriers of $122 million and total commitments with these commercial airline carriers of $127 million.
 
 
 
Other Events
 
 
ratios or bottom line income statement trends, however lease payments will be reflected as a component of Other Operating Income and depreciation expense will be recognized and included as a component of Operating Expenses. Additionally, Fifth Third now anticipates maintaining the series of interest rate swaps entered into to hedge certain forecasted transactions with the SPE and continuing the cash flow hedge accounting treatment.
 
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which we do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) legislative or regulatory changes or actions adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged; (7) changes and trends in the securities markets; (8) a delayed or incomplete resolution of regulatory issues; (9) the impact of reputational risk created by these developments on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity; and (10) the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings. We undertake no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release. Further information on other factors which could affect the financial results of Fifth Third are included in Fifth Third's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available free of charge at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov and/or from Fifth Third.
 


