FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20030909163023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 7.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 
ITEM 9.    REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
 
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the third quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
Service Income
 
In general, management expects growth trends in service income categories to be mixed. Specifically, by major category:
 
Electronic Payment Processing
 
Fifth Third expects that third quarter processing revenues will produce a mid-teen to twenty percent growth over the same quarter last year exclusive of the impact of the recent MasterCard/Visa settlement and despite slowing transaction volume growth rates on the existing customer base. Overall, processing revenues are expected to produce 20-25 percent growth on an annualized basis from the second quarter of 2003. Fifth Third Processing Solutions continues to experience significant momentum in attracting new processing relationships.
 
Investment Advisory
 
Fifth Third expects third quarter investment advisory revenues to improve modestly from last quarter despite seasonally strong tax related revenues in the second quarter of 2003. As equity market valuations continue to build upon recent positive momentum, Fifth Third expects increased revenue contributions in both private client and institutional services.
 
Deposit Service Revenue
 
Retail and commercial deposit account service revenues are expected to produce mid-teen percent year-over-year growth rates as Fifth Third has continued to generate new accounts in all of our markets and service charges continue to benefit from sales campaigns and a low rate environment. Commercial treasury management revenues are showing good year-over-year growth as our sales force continues to add new customers and deepen existing relationships with additional products and services.
 
Mortgage Banking
 
Mortgage banking revenues are expected to return to levels similar to those seen in the fourth quarter of 2002 with comparisons to last quarter affected by changes in mortgage interest rates and related loan sale activities. Fifth Third continues to maintain its posture with regard to hedging activity to manage the risk associated with impairment changes and write downs incurred on its mortgage servicing rights portfolio as a result of the current interest rate environment and corresponding prepayment speeds.
 
Other Operating Income
 
Other service income is expected to return to levels seen in the first quarter of 2003 on continued strength in commercial banking revenue, loan and lease related fees and institutional fixed income sales.
 
Expenses
 
Balance Sheet Trends and Net Interest Income
 
Fifth Third expects high single digit to low double-digit year-over-year percentage growth in net interest income over last year's third quarter despite a declining net interest margin and inclusive of the impact of a reclassification of minority interest expense to interest expense pursuant to SFAS No. 150 discussed in further detail later in this document. Margin trends in future periods will be dependant upon the magnitude of loan demand, the path of interest rates in the economy and the magnitude of compression between margin and spread. The absolute level of short-term interest rates is continuing to pose challenges with respect to the decreased benefit of strong capital levels and low-cost deposits but recent increases in long-term interest rates should benefit near-term net interest margin trends. Other balance sheet trends:
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
With the general difficulty of the environment and conflicting economic data, Fifth Third is realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics. Fifth Third's long history of low exposure limits, avoidance of national or sub-prime lending businesses, centralized credit risk management, and diversified portfolio position us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses.
 
 
 
Other Events
 
 
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which we do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) legislative or regulatory changes or actions adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged; (7) changes and trends in the securities markets; (8) a delayed or incomplete resolution of regulatory issues; (9) the impact of reputational risk created by these developments on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity; and (10) the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings. We undertake no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release. Further information on other factors which could affect the financial results of Fifth Third are included in Fifth Third's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available free of charge at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov and/or from Fifth Third.


