FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20031209162358.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1Management Discussion of Trends
 
 
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
 
 
Service Income
 
In general, management expects service income categories to exhibit positive trends. Specifically, by major category:
 
Electronic Payment Processing
 
Fifth Third expects that fourth quarter processing revenues will produce low double-digit percent growth over the same quarter last year exclusive of an approximate $8 million fourth quarter impact from the MasterCard/Visa settlement. Inclusive of the settlement, processing revenues are expected to produce 30-35 percent growth on an annualized basis from the third quarter of 2003. Merchant processing revenues continue to show good growth on new customer additions despite moderating transaction volumes on the existing customer base.
 
Investment Advisory
 
Fifth Third expects fourth quarter investment advisory revenues to produce a low double digit to mid-teen growth rate over the fourth quarter last year and remain essentially flat to the third quarter of 2003. As equity market valuations continue to build upon recent positive momentum, Fifth Third expects increased revenue contributions in both private client and institutional services.
 
Deposit Service Revenue
 
Retail and commercial deposit account service revenues are expected to produce low double-digit percent year-over-year growth rates as Fifth Third has continued to generate new accounts in all of our markets and service charges continue to benefit from sales campaigns and a low rate environment. Commercial treasury management revenues are showing good year-over-year growth as our sales force continues to add new customers and deepen existing relationships with additional products and services.
 
Mortgage Banking
 
Mortgage banking revenues are expected to decline from the levels seen in the third quarter due to a decline in the level of refinance activity. Fifth Third continues to maintain its posture with regard to hedging activity to manage the risk associated with impairment changes and write downs incurred on its mortgage servicing rights portfolio as a result of the current interest rate environment and corresponding prepayment speeds.
 
Expenses
 
Balance Sheet Trends and Net Interest Income
 
Fifth Third expects mid to high single digit year-over-year percentage growth in net interest income over last year's fourth quarter. The net interest margin is expected to improve modestly in the fourth quarter due to decreases in the speed of prepayment activity and corresponding decreases in the level of premium amortization on the available-for-sale securities portfolio relative to the third quarter. Margin trends in future periods will be dependant upon the magnitude of deposit growth and the speed of interest rate changes in the economy. Fifth Third expects loan and subsequent balance sheet growth to moderate from recent period growth levels as asset prepayments continue to slow and interest rates begin to reflect improving economic conditions.
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
With the general difficulty of the environment Fifth Third is realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics. Fifth Third's long history of low exposure limits, avoidance of national or sub-prime lending businesses, centralized credit risk management, and diversified portfolio position us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses. Commercial net charge-offs are expected to increase in the fourth quarter primarily due to the charge-off of two commercial airline leases totaling approximately $18 million. On an overall basis:
 
 
 
Other Events
 
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which we do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) legislative or regulatory changes or actions adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged; (7) changes and trends in the securities markets; (8) a delayed or incomplete resolution of regulatory issues; (9) the impact of reputational risk created by these developments on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity; and (10) the outcome of regulatory and legal proceedings. We undertake no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release. Further information on other factors which could affect the financial results of Fifth Third are included in Fifth Third's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available free of charge at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov and/or from Fifth Third.


