FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20040310163801.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.
Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure
 
As previously reported, Fifth Third has entered into an agreement to acquire Franklin Financial Corporation and its subsidiary, Franklin National Bank. After discussion with its banking regulatory authorities, Fifth Third is currently filing regulatory applications to finalize this transaction. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and the approval of Franklin Financial Corporation's shareholders. Fifth Third expects to finalize this transaction in the second quarter of 2004.
 
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1  Management Discussion of Trends
 
Item 9.
Regulation FD Disclosure
 
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the first quarter of 2004.
 
 
 
Service Income
 
In general, management expects service income categories to exhibit positive trends. Specifically, by major category:
 
Electronic Payment Processing
 
Fifth Third expects that first quarter processing revenues will produce low double-digit percent growth over the same quarter last year with comparisons to last year's first quarter impacted by an approximate $7 million from the MasterCard/Visa settlement. Comparisons to the fourth quarter of 2003 are impacted by the significant seasonal increases in transaction volumes typically seen in the fourth quarter.
 
Investment Advisory
 
Fifth Third expects first quarter investment advisory revenues to produce mid-teen percentage growth over the first quarter of last year. On a sequential quarter basis, revenues are expected to increase at an annualized rate approximating 30 percent due to improving market conditions and seasonal strength in certain trust and tax related services.
 
Deposit Service Revenue
 
Retail and commercial deposit account service revenues are expected to produce high single digit percent year-over-year growth rates as Fifth Third has continued to generate new accounts in all of our markets and service charges continue to benefit from sales campaigns and a low rate environment. Commercial treasury management revenues are showing good year-over-year growth as our sales force continues to add new customers and deepen existing relationships with additional products and services.
 
Mortgage Banking
 
Mortgage banking revenues are expected to decline from the levels seen in the fourth quarter due to a decline in the level of refinance activity. Fifth Third continues to maintain its posture with regard to hedging activity to manage the risk associated with impairment changes and write downs incurred on its mortgage servicing rights portfolio as a result of the current interest rate environment and corresponding prepayment speeds.
 
Other Service Income
 
Other service income is expected to return to levels seen in the second quarter of 2003 on continued strength in commercial banking revenue and institutional fixed income sales.
 
Expenses
 
Balance Sheet Trends and Net Interest Income
 
Fifth Third expects mid to high single digit year-over-year percentage growth in net interest income over last year's first quarter. The net interest margin is expected to improve modestly in the first quarter due to the continued benefits of steepness in the short end of the yield curve and moderation in the level of prepayment activity. Margin trends in future periods will be dependent upon the magnitude of deposit growth in relation to balance sheet growth and the speed of interest rate changes in the economy.
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
With the general difficulty of the environment Fifth Third is realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics. Fifth Third's long history of conservative exposure limits, avoidance of national or sub-prime lending businesses, centralized credit risk management, and diversified portfolio position us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses. Commercial net charge-offs are expected to decline significantly from fourth quarter 2003 levels. As a result of expected first quarter credit trends and an overall improving credit outlook, Fifth Third does not expect increases in the reserve for credit losses at levels similar to those seen during 2003. On an overall basis:
 
 
 
Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
This release may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This press release may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which we do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) legislative or regulatory changes or actions adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged; (7) changes and trends in the securities markets; (8) a delayed or incomplete resolution of regulatory issues; (9) the impact of reputational risk created by the developments discussed above on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity; and (10) the outcome of regulatory and legal investigations and proceedings. We undertake no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this release. Further information on other factors which could affect the financial results of Fifth Third are included in Fifth Third's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. These documents are available free of charge at the Commission's website at http://www.sec.gov and/or from Fifth Third.


