FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20051007153053.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 6, 2005, Fifth Third Bancorp amended and restated the Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. The changes in the plan were mostly designed to comply with the enactment of new Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
 
As part of this amendment and restatement, the procedures to defer compensation and to select the date a benefit is to be paid under the plan have been revised to meet the requirements of Section 409A. As permitted by the new legislation, the plan also provides participants a one-time election to either take a complete taxable payout in 2005 or to continue the deferral under the amended and restated plan. For administrative convenience, a participant who has already terminated service will receive a complete taxable payout in 2005 if the value of his vested account as of June 30, 2005 did not exceed $10,000. An ongoing "cash-out" rule has also been included in the plan to provide that a participant who has terminated service will receive a complete payout if the value of his vested account as of any December 31
st
does not exceed $25,000.
 
Other amended provisions of the plan allow for the inclusion of benefits from other nonqualified plans that Fifth Third has assumed in acquisitions. It is anticipated that Fifth Third will give participants in certain of those acquired plans the ability to take a 2005 taxable payout or, in the alternative, to have their benefit deferred and administered under the Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.
 
Additionally, in changes unrelated to Section 409A, the amended and restated plan now requires that death benefits must be paid in a lump sum (rather than the participant having a choice of a lump sum payment or monthly installments as has been the case), participants must wait until the first open enrollment period after being elected as a director to enroll in the plan (rather than immediately upon being elected as a director as has been the case), and the plan may be amended by action of the Fifth Third Bank Pension, Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee or the Chairman of that Committee (rather than by action of the Board of Directors as has been the case).
 
This description of the amended and restated plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the plan itself, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An individual who is not a Director on the first day of an Open Enrollment Period but who later becomes a Director shall not be eligible to elect to defer Compensation until the first day of the next Open Enrollment Period with respect to which he is still a Director (for the Plan Year to which such next Open Enrollment Period relates).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such an election shall be made in such manner as the Committee shall direct.
 
The Committee may prescribe rules including rules which limit the frequency of changes to elections, prescribe times for making elections, regulate the amount or increment a Participant may allocate to a particular investment benchmark, require or allow an election (or election change) to relate only to future allocations, require an election to apply consistently to all subaccounts and provide for the investment of an Account of a Participant who fails to make an election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Participant's Account paid (or commence to be paid) as of the first business day of August of the Plan Year immediately following the Plan Year in which the Participant ceases to be a Director, or the first business day of August of any subsequent year, but not later than the first business day of August of the tenth Plan Year following the Plan Year in which the Participant ceases to be a Director. In accordance with the election procedures in Paragraph 7.2, a Participant may elect to have such amounts paid in one of the following forms:
 
 
 
If installment payments are in effect, the Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with earnings (or losses) under Article VI until fully paid.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or Paragraph 7.3 (a), (b) or (c), effective December 31, 2005, in the event the Participant's Account does not exceed $25,000 as of any December 31
st
after the Participant has ceased to be a Director, then any payment election by a Participant shall be disregarded. In such a case, the Account (or remaining balance thereof) shall be paid in a single lump sum cash distribution as of the first business day of August following such December 31
st
(even if the payment would exceed $25,000 at that time).
 
 
 
Any such election shall be effective immediately.
 
As provided in Paragraph 1.3(b), a payment election in 2005 under Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 shall be considered a timely initial election.
 
 
 
election. Otherwise, the payment shall be made in accordance with the election (if any) in effect immediately prior to the changed election, or in accordance with (b) above if no such election is in effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
or effect. As provided in Paragraph 1.3(b), such a Participant shall have the opportunity to complete a new election by a date in 2005 determined by the Committee. Any such election shall be treated as an initial election under Paragraph 7.2(a). Such a Participant who does not make a timely election shall be treated the same as provided for in Paragraph 7.2(b) and 7.2(c) for Participants who do not make timely initial elections.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is not furnished within the time limit applicable under (i) above, then the Claimant may deem such Claim denied and may request a review of such deemed denial pursuant to the provisions of Paragraph 13.2.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of the Request for Review. The Claims Review Committee must furnish the Claimant written notice of any extension prior to its commencement.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Claims Review Committee shall have the sole, absolute and uncontrolled discretion to decide all claims under the initial claims procedure and under the claims review procedure, and its decisions shall be binding on all parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Fifth Third Bancorp has caused this Plan to be adopted as of January 1, 2005.
 
 


