FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20051212164353.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1  Management Discussion of Trends
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
 
 
Fifth Third expects fourth quarter 2005 trends to be mixed. Strong core deposit, noninterest income and loan growth are expected to be more than offset by elevated credit losses, a moderate decline in the net interest margin and modest earning asset growth due to continued reductions in available-for-sale securities.
 
Noninterest Income
 
In general, management expects strong core performance on both an annualized sequential basis and over the same quarter last year. Specifically, by major category:
 
Electronic Payment Processing
 
Fifth Third expects fourth quarter electronic payment processing revenues to continue to reflect strong trends in both new customer acquisition and overall retail sales activity. Processing revenues are expected to exhibit mid teen percentage growth over the same quarter last year.
 
Deposit Service Revenue
 
Total fourth quarter deposit account service revenues are expected to increase at a mid single digit percentage rate over the same quarter last year on improved retail-based deposit revenues. Commercial-based revenues continue to be impacted by rising short-term interest rates despite increased activity and numerous customer additions relative to the same quarter last year.
 
Investment Advisors
 
Fifth Third expects fourth quarter investment advisory revenues to produce low single digit percentage growth over the same quarter last year; a modest seasonal decline from third quarter 2005 levels.
 
Mortgage Banking
 
Fourth quarter net mortgage banking revenues are expected to produce stable results characterized by strong growth over the same quarter last year and a modest decline from third quarter 2005 levels.
 
Other Noninterest Income
 
Fourth quarter other noninterest income is expected to improve from third quarter 2005 levels from strength in loan and lease fees, international income, and commercial banking sub-categories.
 
Expenses
 
Compared to the third quarter of 2005, noninterest expenses are expected to exhibit mid single digit percentage growth on an annualized sequential basis. Operating expenses, including employee related captions, are expected to remain relatively stable, offset by modest increases in bankcard, information technology and certain other expense captions.
 
Balance Sheet Trends
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
 
Fourth quarter credit quality trends are expected to reflect an elevated level of net charge-offs associated with approximately $27 million in losses to bankrupt commercial airline carriers and an increase in consumer loan and lease losses associated with increased personal bankruptcies prior to the recently enacted reform legislation. Net charge-offs, as a percentage of average loans and leases, are expected to increase to the mid 60 basis point level. Although realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics, Fifth Third's long history of conservative exposure limits, centralized credit risk management and a diversified portfolio positions us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses. Fifth Third does not expect a significant change in the reserve for credit losses as a percentage of total loans and leases during the fourth quarter.
 
Other Events
 
 
 
This report may contain forward-looking statements about the Registrant and/or the company as combined with acquired entities within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business of the Registrant and/or the combined company including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in
which the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) changes and trends in the securities markets; (7) legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, adversely affect the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company or the businesses in which the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company are engaged; (8) difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities and (9) the impact of reputational risk created by the developments discussed above on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity. The Registrant undertakes no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.


