FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20050930073123.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On September 26, 2005, Fifth Third Bancorp amended and restated The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan. The changes in the plan were mostly designed to comply with the enactment of new Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
 
As part of this amendment and restatement, the procedures to defer compensation and to select the date a benefit is to be paid under the plan have been revised to meet the requirements of Section 409A. As permitted by the new legislation, the plan also provides participants a one-time election to either take a complete taxable payout in 2005 or to continue the deferral under the amended and restated plan. For administrative convenience, a "cash-out" rule has been included in the plan to provide that a participant who has terminated service will receive a complete payout if the value of his vested account as of any December 31
st
does not exceed $25,000.
 
Other amended provisions of the plan allow for the inclusion of benefits from other nonqualified plans that Fifth Third has assumed in acquisitions. It is anticipated that Fifth Third will give participants in certain of those acquired plans the ability to take a 2005 taxable payout or, in the alternative, to have their benefit deferred and administered under The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan.
 
Additionally, in a change unrelated to Section 409A, the amended and restated plan now requires that profit sharing and matching contributions vest over time rather than immediately as has been the case.
 
This description of the amended and restated plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the plan itself, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1  The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An individual who is not an Executive on the first day of an Open Enrollment Period but who later becomes an Executive (including a former Executive who is reemployed by an Employer as an Executive) shall not be eligible to elect to defer Compensation until the first day of the next Open Enrollment Period with respect to which he is still an Executive (for the Plan Year to which such next Open Enrollment Period relates); and he shall not be eligible for matching or profit sharing allocations until the Plan Year containing the next Open Enrollment Period as of the first day of which he is an Executive.
 
 
 
 
 
provided however, such an election shall terminate if the Participant's employment status changes so that he is no longer an Executive.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The matching allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the matching allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Matching Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
Matching allocations credited for Plan Years after 2004 shall be credited to the Participant's Post-2004 Matching Account. Matching allocations credited for Plan Years beginning before 2005 are reflected in the Participant's Pre-2005 Matching Account.
 
 
 
The profit sharing allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the profit sharing allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Profit Sharing Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
Profit sharing allocations credited for Plan Years after 2004 shall be credited to the Participant's Post-2004 Profit Sharing Account. Profit sharing allocations credited for Plan Years beginning before 2005 are reflected in the Participant's Pre-2005 Profit Sharing Account.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such an election shall be made in such manner as the Committee shall direct.
 
The Committee may prescribe rules including rules which limit the frequency of changes to elections, prescribe times for making elections, regulate the amount or increment a Participant may allocate to a particular investment benchmark, require or allow an election (or election change) to relate only to future allocations, require an election to apply consistently to all subaccounts and provide for the investment of an Account (or Predecessor Plan Diversified Account) of a Participant who fails to make an election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If installment payments are in effect, the Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with earnings (or losses) under Article VIII until fully paid.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or Paragraph 10.3(a), (b) or (c), effective December 31, 2005, in the event the Participant's vested Account does not exceed $25,000 as of any December 31
st
after the Participant has separated from service, then any payment election
 
by a Participant shall be disregarded. In such a case, the vested Account (or remaining balance thereof) shall be paid in a single lump sum distribution as of the first business day of August following such December 31
st
(even if such vested Account exceeds $25,000 at that time).
 
 
 
 
Any such election shall be effective immediately.
 
As provided in Paragraph 1.3(b), a payment election in 2005 under Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 shall be considered a timely initial election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Claims Review Committee shall have the sole, absolute and uncontrolled discretion to decide all claims under the initial claims procedure and under the claims review procedure, and its decisions shall be binding on all parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Fifth Third Bancorp has caused this Plan to be adopted as of January 1, 2005.
 
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
 
By:
/S/ PAUL L. REYNOLDS
 
9/26/05
 


