FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20051025163231.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On October 19, 2005, Fifth Third amended the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan. The changes in the plan were mostly designed to comply with the enactment of new Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
 
As permitted by the new legislation, the amendment provides participants a one-time election to either take a complete taxable payout in 2005, or, in the alternative, to have their benefit deferred and administered under The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated.
 
This description of the amended plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the amendment itself, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 10.1  2005-1 Amendment to Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
WHEREAS, Fifth Third Financial Corporation, as successor to Old Kent Financial Corporation, maintains the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan;
 
WHEREAS, section 8.1 of the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan reserves to the Fifth Third Bank Pension, Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee (the "Committee") the power to amend the plan;
 
WHEREAS, the Committee would like to amend the plan and to provide for its complete amendment and restatement into The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, pursuant to the reserved power of amendment contained in section 8.1 of the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan, the Plan is hereby amended in the following respects:
 
 
As such, the plan document (and any future amendments) comprising The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan shall be controlling with respect to vested benefits attributable to the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan; provided, however, prior to such date in 2005 as determined by the Administrator, the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan may be administered based on the provisions of the plan document and amendments comprising such plan, as they existed prior to this amendment and restatement, to the extent consistent with Internal Revenue Code section 409A. Otherwise such plan document and amendments shall have no further force and effect.
 
The Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan shall constitute a "Predecessor Plan" as defined in The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan. The only amounts attributable to the Old Kent Executive Thrift Plan which shall be reflected in a Participant's Predecessor Plan Diversified Account are those amounts that are vested. Amounts forfeited shall not be reflected in the Predecessor Plan Diversified Account.
 
 
Specifically, but without limitation, the Administrator, in its discretion, may condition the ability of a Participant to receive a complete payout of his vested account in 2005, on the Participant consenting to Fifth Third Financial Corporation's amendment of the Old Kent Executive Benefit Trust and removal of Wachovia Bank, N.A. as trustee.
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Fifth Third Bank Pension, Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee has caused this amendment to be adopted this 19th day of October, 2005.
 
 


