FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20061208163140.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definite Agreement
On December 4, 2006, the Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp ("Fifth Third") amended the Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan. The amendment to the Plan allows participants to make investment elections, of their Account, among various benchmarks the Committee establishes. Previously, the plan only allowed investment in the Fifth Third Stock Fund.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 10.1  The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (as amended and restated effective January 1, 2007).
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
comparable section or sections of any future legislation that amends, supplements or supersedes said section.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An individual who is not an Executive on the first day of an Open Enrollment Period but who later becomes an Executive (including a former Executive who is reemployed by an Employer as an Executive) shall not be eligible to elect to defer Compensation until the first day of the next Open Enrollment Period with respect to which he is still an Executive (for the Plan Year to which such next Open Enrollment Period relates); and he shall not be eligible for matching or
 
profit sharing allocations until the Plan Year containing the next Open Enrollment Period as of the first day of which he is an Executive.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The matching allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the matching allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Matching Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
 
The profit sharing allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the profit sharing allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Profit Sharing Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
 
 
Such an election shall be made in such manner as the Committee shall direct.
The Committee may prescribe rules including rules which limit the frequency of changes to elections, prescribe times for making elections, regulate the amount or increment a Participant may allocate to a particular investment benchmark, require or allow an election (or election change) to relate only to future allocations, require an election to apply consistently to all subaccounts and provide for the investment of an Account of a Participant who fails to make an election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If installment payments are in effect, the Participant's Account shall continue to be credited with earnings (or losses) under Article VIII until fully paid.
Notwithstanding the foregoing or Paragraph 10.3(a), (b) or (c), effective December 31, 2005, in the event the Participant's vested Account does not exceed $25,000 as of any December 31
st
after the Participant has separated from service, then any payment election by a Participant shall be disregarded. In such a case, the vested Account (or remaining balance thereof) shall be paid in a single lump sum distribution as of the first business day of August following such December 31
st
(even if such vested Account exceeds $25,000 at that time).
 
 
 
Any such election shall be effective immediately.
As provided in Paragraph 1.2, a payment election in 2005 under Internal Revenue Service Notice 2005-1 shall be considered a timely initial election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective December 31, 2005, in the event the Participant's vested Account does not exceed $25,000 as of any December 31
st
, then any payment election by a Participant shall be disregarded. In such a case, the vested Account (or remaining balance thereof) shall be paid in a single lump sum distribution as of the first business day of August following such December 31
st
(even if such vested Account exceeds $25,000 at that time).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Benefits under this Plan will be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to them.
 
 
 
an amendment is being made by said Committee, it must be approved by a majority of the members of the Committee as constituted at the time of adoption of the amendment. Any amendment may be given retroactive effect as determined by said Committee or Chairman. Any amendment may, without limitation, (a) affect a Participant whether or not vested, employed or in pay status, and (b) affect or modify Participant elections and payment methods. An amendment may be evidenced in such manner as said Committee or Chairman shall determine. If the amendment is approved by said Committee, such evidence may include (but shall not be limited to) a written resolution signed by a majority of the members of the Committee or minutes of a meeting of the Committee reflecting approval by a majority of the members.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Claims Review Committee expects to render a decision. In no event shall an extension exceed a period of 90 days from the end of the initial period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Claims Review Committee shall have the sole, absolute and uncontrolled discretion to decide all claims under the initial claims procedure and under the claims review procedure, and its decisions shall be binding on all parties.
 
 
 
 
 
within its text as a Plan amendment. Written communications and descriptions not specifically identified within their text as amendments, shall not constitute amendments and shall have no interpretive or controlling effect on the interpretation of this Plan. Oral communications shall not constitute amendments and shall have no interpretation or controlling effect on the interpretation of this Plan.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Fifth Third Bancorp has caused this Plan to be executed this 4th day of December 2006.
 
 


