FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20060104163448.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On December 28, 2005, Fifth Third Bancorp amended and restated The Fifth Third Bancorp Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan. The changes in the plan were designed to provide that profit sharing and matching contributions would vest immediately rather than over time as would have been the case if a prior amendment were to have become effective.
 
This description of the amended and restated plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the plan itself, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
An individual who is not an Executive on the first day of an Open Enrollment Period but who later becomes an Executive (including a former Executive who is reemployed by an Employer as an Executive) shall not be eligible to elect to defer Compensation until the first day of the next Open Enrollment Period with respect to which he is still an Executive (for the Plan Year to which such next Open Enrollment Period relates); and he shall not be eligible for matching or profit sharing allocations until the Plan Year containing the next Open Enrollment Period as of the first day of which he is an Executive.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The matching allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the matching allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Matching Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
 
 
The profit sharing allocations for such selected Executives shall be determined by the Employer and may vary for each such Executive. The amount of the profit sharing allocations as so determined under this paragraph shall be credited to the Participants' Profit Sharing Accounts as of the last day of the Plan Year, or at such other time or times determined by the Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Such an election shall be made in such manner as the Committee shall direct.
 
The Committee may prescribe rules including rules which limit the frequency of changes to elections, prescribe times for making elections, regulate the amount or increment a Participant may allocate to a particular investment benchmark,
 
require or allow an election (or election change) to relate only to future allocations, require an election to apply consistently to all subaccounts and provide for the investment of an Account (or Predecessor Plan Diversified Account) of a Participant who fails to make an election.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Claims Review Committee shall have the sole, absolute and uncontrolled discretion to decide all claims under the initial claims procedure and under the claims review procedure, and its decisions shall be binding on all parties.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Fifth Third Bancorp has caused this Plan to be adopted as of January 1, 2005.
 
 


