FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20060213160625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
On February 7, 2006, the Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp (the "Company") established the 2006 Performance Goals for the payment of Annual Incentive Awards under the Company's Incentive Compensation Plan. The Performance Goals were set in the form of a bonus grid comprised of both return on equity and incrementally increasing amounts of earnings per share, which produce an incentive bonus pool available for payments in 2007. The bonus amounts in the grid increase based on the Company's return on equity relative to its peers and incrementally higher earnings per share in 2006. Annual Incentive Awards are payable in cash (provided, however, that the Committee may designate that all or a portion of such amount may be payable in common stock of the Company).
 
The Incentive Compensation Plan was approved and adopted by the Company's shareholders in 2004. In addition to Annual Incentive Awards, the following types of stock based equity compensation awards may be granted under the plan:
 
The Compensation Committee may grant SARs independently of any stock option or in tandem with all or any part of a stock option granted under the Plan. Upon exercise, each SAR entitles a participant to receive an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of a share of Common Stock on the date the SAR is exercised over the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date the SAR is granted. The payment may be made in shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the amount due upon the exercise of the SAR, may be paid in cash, or in a combination. Upon exercise of an SAR granted in conjunction with a stock option, the option may be required to be surrendered.
Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs").
 
An award of Restricted Stock is an award of shares of Common Stock that may not be sold or otherwise disposed of during a restricted period determined by the Committee. An award of Restricted Stock Units is an award of the right to receive a share of Common Stock after the expiration of a restricted period determined by the Committee. Restricted Stock may be voted by the recipient. To the extent provided by the Committee, dividends on the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be payable to the recipient in cash or in additional Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
Performance Shares and Performance Units are awards of a fixed or variable number of shares or of dollar-denominated units that are earned by achievement of performance goals established by the Committee. If the applicable performance criteria are met, the shares are earned and become unrestricted with respect to Performance Shares or an amount is payable with respect to the Performance Units. The Committee may provide that a certain percentage of the number of Performance Shares or Units originally awarded may be earned based upon the attainment of the performance goals. Amounts earned under Performance Share and Performance Unit Awards may be paid in Common Stock, cash or a combination of both. During the applicable performance period for an award, the shares may be voted by the recipient and the recipient may be entitled to receive dividends on those shares, at the discretion of the Committee.
Performance Shares and Performance Units.
 
Stock Options may be nonqualified stock options or incentive stock options that comply with Code Section 422. The exercise period for any stock option will be determined by the Committee at the time of grant. The exercise price per share for all shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to stock options under the Plan may not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the grant date. Each stock option may be exercised in whole, at any time, or in part, from time to time, after the grant becomes exercisable. The Plan limits the term of any stock option to 10 years and prohibits repricing of options.
Stock Options.
 
The Committee may grant other types of awards of which may be based in whole or in part by reference to Common Stock or upon the achievement of performance goals or such other terms and conditions as the Committee may prescribe. As required by Code Section 162(m), the Plan provides an annual limit of $4,000,000 on the amount a single participant may earn under any such Other Incentive Award. For purposes of this limitation, any award earned over a period greater than one year is deemed to have been earned ratably over the full and partial calendar years in such period.
Other Incentive Awards.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 


