FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20060613165325.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01    
Regulation FD Disclosure
To assist investors, financial analysts and other interested parties in their analysis of Fifth Third Bancorp, the Registrant developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K. This document, incorporated herein by reference, is furnished, not filed.
Item 9.01    
Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1  Management Discussion of Trends
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
(Registrant)
 

Exhibit 99.1
Fifth Third Bancorp has developed the document attached as Exhibit 99.1 containing a general trend overview of Fifth Third's objectives, financial condition and results of operations for the second quarter of 2006.
Though challenges remain, Fifth Third expects second quarter 2006 trends to illustrate improving performance. Good loan, deposit, credit, noninterest income and expense trends are expected to be partially mitigated by results in net interest income.
Noninterest Income
Electronic Payment Processing
Fifth Third expects second quarter electronic payment processing revenues to continue to reflect steady trends in new customer acquisition despite more modest trends in overall retail sales activity. Processing revenues are expected to exhibit mid-teen percentage growth over the same quarter last year and annualized growth in excess of 30 percent from first quarter levels. The outlook for the remainder of 2006 remains very strong with recent customer additions.
Deposit Service Revenue
Total second quarter deposit account service revenues are expected to increase at a low- to mid-single digit percentage rate over the same quarter last year on growth from retail-based deposit revenues and steady performance in commercial-based deposit revenues despite the impact of rising short-term interest rates.
Investment Advisors
Fifth Third expects second quarter investment advisory revenues to produce mid- to high-single digit percentage growth over the same quarter last year.
Mortgage Banking
Second quarter net mortgage banking revenues are expected to produce similar results relative to recent quarterly trends.
Corporate Banking
Second quarter corporate banking revenues are expected to produce mid-teen percentage growth over the same quarter last year due to solid results in international and capital markets related revenues.
Other Noninterest Income Categories
Second quarter other noninterest income is expected to produce stable results relative to first quarter trends.
Expenses
Compared to the second quarter of 2005, noninterest expenses are expected to exhibit mid-single digit percentage growth inclusive of the recognition of approximately $9 million of incremental expense in the second quarter of 2006 related to the issuance in April 2006 of stock-based awards to retirement-eligible employees.
Balance Sheet Trends
 
 
 
 
Credit Quality
Second quarter credit quality trends are expected to remain relatively stable. Net charge-offs, as a percentage of average loans and leases, are expected to remain in the low 40 basis point level. Second quarter net charge-offs are expected to include losses related to the sale of approximately $39 million in nonaccrual loans and leases. Although realistic about the difficulty in precisely estimating credit quality metrics, Fifth Third's long history of conservative exposure limits, centralized credit risk management and a diversified portfolio positions us well to effectively weather cycles and reduce the likelihood of significant unexpected losses. Fifth Third does not expect a significant change in the reserve for credit losses as a percentage of total loans and leases during the second quarter.
Other Events
This report may contain forward-looking statements about the Registrant and/or the company as combined with acquired entities within the meaning of Sections 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder, that involve inherent risks and uncertainties. This report may contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future
performance and business of the Registrant and/or the combined company including statements preceded by, followed by or that include the words or phrases such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain" or similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," "may" or similar expressions. There are a number of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are not limited to: (1) competitive pressures among depository institutions increase significantly; (2) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest margins; (3) prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volumes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (4) general economic conditions, either national or in the states in which the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company do business, are less favorable than expected; (5) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets or other economic conditions; (6) changes and trends in the securities markets; (7) legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, adversely affect the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company or the businesses in which the Registrant, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company are engaged; (8) difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities and (9) the impact of reputational risk created by the developments discussed above on such matters as business generation and retention, funding and liquidity. Additional information concerning factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements is available in the Bancorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Copies of this filing are available at no cost on the SEC's Web site at or on the Registrant's Web site at . The Registrant undertakes no obligation to release revisions to these forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this report.
www.sec.gov
www.53.com


