FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20080618144356.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 18, 2008, Fifth Third Bancorp commenced presentations to prospective investors in the Bancorp's proposed public offering of convertible preferred stock, which was announced by the Bancorp earlier today. A copy of this presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference.
On June 18, 2008, Fifth Third Bancorp issued a letter to its shareholders discussing its capital plans. A copy of this letter is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. The information in this letter shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference.
 
Exhibit 99.1 Investor Presentation dated June 18, 2008 (solely "furnished" and not "filed" for the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
Exhibit 99.2 Letter to Shareholders dated June 18, 2008 (solely "furnished" and not "filed" for the purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended)
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


Exhibit 99.2
 
June 18, 2008
Dear Fellow Shareholder:
I am writing to tell you that today our company announced several important actions to help ensure that Fifth Third Bank is appropriately positioned to remain the strong and vital company that it has been for 150 years.
We are taking these actions to fortify our balance sheet and improve the quality and composition of our capital base. These actions reflect our commitment to protect the health and strength of Fifth Third Bank. These actions include:
 
 
 
Our company's management recommended, and the board of directors approved, these actions because of continued deterioration in credit trends during the second quarter and uncertainty about the direction of credit trends in the near future. These trends are affecting many companies in the banking and financial services industry, including Fifth Third.
We recognize the significance to all shareholders of lowering our common stock dividend; it was a difficult decision that was made only after very long and careful consideration. However, in today's unprecedented economic environment and with continuing uncertainty regarding the future, it was the prudent thing to do.
The banking industry, including Fifth Third, faces a challenging near-term outlook. We recently concluded a thorough review of our credit portfolio and trends continue to deteriorate. Residential real estate losses have continued to rise and the severity of those losses have trended higher due to falling home prices. We see continued weakness in commercial real estate values, and significant impacts on commercial construction and development lending. We determined that charge offs of loans will be materially higher in 2008 compared with 2007.
Many areas of our business are strong and are performing well. These areas include payments processing, with mid-teens fee income growth, as well as double-digit growth in deposit fees, mortgage banking and corporate banking.
The capital actions we announced today, along with our continuing very strong operating performance, should enable us to absorb these higher loan charge offs and will also give us additional capital should economic conditions continue to worsen. We believe these decisions will preserve our historically high capital levels, protect our shareholders today, and create value over the long term.
Additional information regarding the actions discussed here is available on the Investor Relations section of our website at http:\\ir.53.com. Information regarding the risks facing us are available in our securities filings which are also available from the investor relations portion of our website or the SEC.
I encourage you to read this material. Shareholders who still have questions after reviewing this material may call 1-866-670-0468.
Thank you for your patience and continued support of Fifth Third.
Sincerely,
 


