FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20100422161634.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) As previously reported, on September 24, 2009, the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp amended the compensation of its senior executive officers in order to comply with the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance issued in June 2009 by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The Board also approved salary adjustments for certain senior executive officers, with approved increases to be paid in the form of cash and phantom stock units.
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors has approved changes to the settlement provisions with respect to the phantom stock issued to senior executive officers pursuant to Fifth Third Bancorp's 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Phantom stock units earned on or before June 12, 2010 will continue to be settled in cash on the earlier to occur of June 15, 2011 or the executive's death. Except in the case of the executive's prior death, any phantom stock units earned on or after June 13, 2010 will be settled in cash with 50% being settled on June 15, 2012 and 50% being settled on June 15, 2013. In the event of the executive's death, any unsettled phantom stock units earned on or after June 13, 2010 would be settled in cash in their entirety upon the executive's death.
The Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in Phantom Stock Units previously entered into between Fifth Third Bancorp and each of these executives will be amended accordingly.
 
On April 20, 2010, Fifth Third Bancorp held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders for which the Board of Directors solicited proxies. At the Annual Meeting, the shareholders voted on the following proposals stated in the Proxy Statement dated March 10, 2010, which is incorporated by reference herein.
The proposals voted on and approved or disapproved by the shareholders at the Annual Meeting were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


