FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20100119160235.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) As previously reported, on October 16, 2009 the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp (the "Registrant") elected Emerson L. Brumback and Jewell D. Hoover as directors. Mr. Brumback is the retired president and chief operating officer and director of M&T Bank and the retired executive vice president and director of M&T Bank Corporation. Ms. Hoover is a principal of Hoover and Associates, LLC, a bank consulting company headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina and is an affiliate director of Fifth Third Bank (North Carolina). The Board had not yet determined which committees that Mr. Brumback and Ms. Hoover were to be appointed at the time of the filing of the original report.
The Board of Directors increased the size of the Board to thirteen directors and appointed Mr. Brumback and Ms. Hoover as directors to fill the vacancies created by the increase. Mr. Brumback and Ms. Hoover's compensation for service as a director will be consistent with that of the Registrant's other non-employee directors, as described in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 10, 2009 and the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.
A copy of the related press release was attached as Exhibit 99.1 to the original report.
This amendment is being filed to report that on January 19, 2010 the Board of Directors appointed Mr. Brumback to the Audit Committee and appointed Ms. Hoover to the Risk and Compliance Committee.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


