FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20110802161939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
Fifth Third Bancorp (the "Company") has submitted redemption notices to the trustee to redeem the trust preferred securities related to each trust listed below, which will result in the redemption of the securities identified below on the date specified for each security. The First National Bankshares Statutory Trust II securities have been callable at any time on or after June 17, 2009, and the R&G Capital Trust IV, LLT securities have been callable at any time on or after September 17, 2008. As previously announced by the Company on March 18, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board did not object to the potential redemption of certain such securities as proposed potential capital actions in the Company's capital plan submitted under the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. The redemptions will be funded with excess cash currently available to the Company.
 
On August 2, 2011 Fifth Third Bancorp issued a press release announcing actions with regard to certain trust preferred securities.
A copy of this press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1  Press Release dated August 2, 2011.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
On August 2, 2011, Fifth Third Bancorp (the "Company") submitted redemption notices to the proper trustee for each trust listed below, which will result in the redemption of the trust preferred securities on the date specified for each security pursuant to the call provisions in the respective indentures. The First National Bankshares Statutory Trust II securities have been callable at any time on or after June 17, 2009, and the R&G Capital Trust IV, LLT securities have been callable at any time on or after September 17, 2008. As previously announced by the Company on March 18, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board did not object to the potential redemption of certain such securities as proposed potential capital actions in the Company's capital plan submitted under the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review. These redemptions will be funded with excess cash currently available to the Company.
 
General Information
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. The Company has $111 billion in assets and operates 15 affiliates with 1,314 full-service Banking Centers, including 103 Bank Mart locations open seven days a week inside select grocery stores and 2,440 ATMs in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Georgia and North Carolina. Fifth Third operates four main businesses: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, Consumer Lending, and Investment Advisors. Fifth Third also has a 49% interest in Vantiv, LLC, formerly Fifth Third Processing Solutions, LLC. Fifth Third is among the largest money managers in the Midwest and, as of June 30, 2011, had $276 billion in assets under care, of which it
managed $25 billion for individuals, corporations and not-for-profit organizations. and can be viewed at . Fifth Third's common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "FITB."
Investor information
press releases
www.53.com
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains statements that we believe are "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 3b-6 promulgated thereunder. These statements relate to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance or business. They usually can be identified by the use of forward-looking language such as "will likely result," "may," "are expected to," "is anticipated," "estimate," "forecast," "projected," "intends to," or may include other similar words or phrases such as "believes," "plans," "trend," "objective," "continue," "remain," or similar expressions, or future or conditional verbs such as "will," "would," "should," "could," "might," "can," or similar verbs. You should not place undue reliance on these statements, as they are subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the risk factors set forth in our most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K. When considering these forward-looking statements, you should keep in mind these risks and uncertainties, as well as any cautionary statements we may make. Moreover, you should treat these statements as speaking only as of the date they are made and based only on information then actually known to us.
You should refer to our periodic and current reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or "SEC," for further information on other factors, which could cause actual results to be significantly different from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.


