FILE:FITB/FITB-8K-20110420170628.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) In 2009, the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp amended the compensation of its senior executive officers in order to comply with the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Governance issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The TARP Standards for Compensation prohibited the payment or accrual of bonuses (including equity-based incentive compensation except for restricted stock in an amount no more that
 1
/
3
of total compensation) to the "senior executive officers" shown in Fifth Third's proxy statement and its next 20 most highly compensated employees. The Board also approved salary adjustments for certain senior executive officers to be paid in the form of cash and phantom stock units and equity grants of restricted stock of no more than
 1
/
3
of total compensation.
As previously reported, Fifth Third Bancorp has repurchased the preferred stock and the warrant issued to the U.S. Department of Treasury under the TARP Capital Purchase Program.
On April 15, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved salary adjustments for its executives consistent with its compensation philosophy and its exit from the TARP Capital Purchase Program. In particular, the Committee approved adjustments that eliminated the use of phantom stock units in the payment of salary and reinstituted eligibility to receive incentive compensation and bonuses including equity-based incentive compensation.
The Committee approved the following compensation adjustments for Fifth Third's named executive officers:
 
The Committee is also monitoring the compensation standards contained in various regulations proposed under the Dodd-Frank Act and will make additional modifications as necessary.
 
On April 19, 2011, Fifth Third Bancorp held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders for which the Board of Directors solicited proxies. At the Annual Meeting, the shareholders voted on the following proposals stated in the Proxy Statement dated March 10, 2011, which is incorporated by reference herein.
The proposals voted on and approved or disapproved by the shareholders at the Annual Meeting were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


