FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20060619152126.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Entry Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by Duke Energy Corporation on April 4, 2006, to include the financial statements and exhibits as required in connection with the transaction reported therein.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The pro forma financial information specified in Article 11 of Regulation S-X is filed as Exhibit 99.1 hereto
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of, and for the year ended, December 31, 2005, reflect the following:
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations combines the historical consolidated statements of operations for Duke Energy, as adjusted for the DEFS Disposition Transaction, and Cinergy, giving effect to the Mergers as if they had occurred on January 1, 2005. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet combines the historical consolidated balance sheets of Duke Energy and Cinergy, giving effect to the Mergers as if they had been consummated on December 31, 2005. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements should be read in conjunction with the:
 
 
 
The historical financial information of Duke Energy and Cinergy is derived from the audited financial statements of Duke Energy and Cinergy, respectively, but does not include all disclosures required by accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information is provided for informational purposes only. The pro forma information is not necessarily indicative of what Duke Energy's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had the DEFS Disposition Transaction or the Mergers been completed at the dates indicated. In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of Duke Energy.
The DEFS Disposition Transaction
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations gives effect to the DEFS Disposition Transaction as if it had occurred on January 1, 2005. Duke Energy's historical results of operations
subsequent to July 1, 2005 reflect the effects of the DEFS Disposition Transaction. Additionally, since the DEFS Disposition Transaction occurred on July 1, 2005, no unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated balance sheet has been provided as the effect of the transaction has been reflected in Duke Energy's historical consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2005.
For the DEFS Disposition Transaction, Duke Energy received, directly and indirectly through its ownership interest in DEFS, a total of approximately $1.1 billion in cash and assets from ConocoPhillips and DEFS in exchange for 19.7% of DEFS. The DEFS Disposition Transaction included the transfer to Duke Energy of DEFS' Canadian natural gas gathering and processing facilities and the acquisition of the Empress System assets from ConocoPhillips. As a result of the DEFS Disposition Transaction and subsequent to July 1, 2005, DEFS is no longer consolidated into Duke Energy's historical consolidated financial statements and is accounted for as an equity method investment.
In February 2005, DEFS sold its wholly-owned subsidiary Texas Eastern Products Pipeline Company, LLC ("TEPPCO GP"), which is the general partner of TEPPCO Partners, LP ("TEPPCO LP"), for approximately $1.1 billion and Duke Energy sold its limited partner interest in TEPPCO LP for approximately $100 million, in each case to Enterprise GP Holdings LP, an unrelated third party. These transactions resulted in pre-tax gains of approximately $1.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2005. Additionally, minority interest expense of $343 million was recorded related to these gains for the year ended December 31, 2005 to reflect ConocoPhillips' proportionate share in the pre-tax gain on the sale of TEPPCO GP. As these TEPPCO sale transactions were contemplated in connection with and directly related to the DEFS Disposition Transaction, the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations assumes the TEPPCO sale transactions were completed prior to January 1, 2005. Therefore, the results of operations for DEFS' and Duke Energy's investments in TEPPCO LP as well as the gains recognized on the TEPPCO sale transactions have been removed from the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Consolidated Statement of Operations.
The Mergers
The unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information was prepared using the purchase method of accounting with Duke Energy treated as the acquirer of Cinergy. Accordingly, the historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to the impact of the consideration issued in connection with the Mergers. In the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, Duke Energy's cost to acquire Cinergy has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon estimates of their respective fair values. The differences between the fair value of the consideration issued and the estimated fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired represents goodwill. The amounts allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements are based primarily upon independent third party valuations that are in process of being performed. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations also includes certain purchase accounting adjustments, including items expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results, such as increased depreciation and amortization expense on acquired assets. The pro forma purchase allocation adjustments are subject to revision based on book values as of the closing date and final determination of fair values following completion of valuations but are not anticipated to result in a materially different impact to pro forma financial position or results of operations from that presented herein.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations does not include the impacts of any revenue, cost or other operating synergies that may result from the Mergers. We expect to realize at least $650 million in aggregate net savings during the initial five years following the close of the Mergers from corporate activities, regulated utilities and non-regulated operations. These cost savings will result from elimination of duplicate spending and overlapping functions, improved sourcing strategies, avoidance of planned expenditures and the consolidation of non-regulated business unit operations. Cost savings related to the regulated operations are expected to be shared with customers, as determined in part by regulatory approval proceedings related to the Mergers.
Except as discussed at note (g) to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect any nonrecurring charges
expected to result from the Mergers. The majority of nonrecurring charges resulting from the Mergers are anticipated to be comprised of executive separation, employee termination costs and other exit costs related to the Cinergy business that will be recognized in the opening balance sheet in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No 95-3, "Recognition of Liabilities in Connection with a Purchase Business Combination." Other merger-related charges may be incurred that do not meet the criteria in EITF Issue No 95-3, including employee termination and exit costs related to the Duke Energy business and other integration-related costs.
Except for an adjustment related to pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, as mandated by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") Nos. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions" and 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions" and as discussed in note (i) to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect any pro forma adjustments related to Cinergy's regulated operations that are accounted for pursuant to SFAS No. 71 "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation," which are comprised of PSI Energy, Inc., The Union Light, Heat and Power Company, and The Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company's ("CG&E's") transmission and distribution operations. Under the rate setting and recovery provisions currently in place for these regulated operations which provide revenues derived from cost, the fair values of the individual tangible and intangible assets and liabilities are considered to approximate their carrying values.
 
 
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to deconsolidate DEFS from the consolidated statement of operations of Duke Energy for the period prior to July 1, 2005 and present the historical 69.7% investment in DEFS as an equity method investment. Equity in earnings of the historical 69.7% investment in DEFS reflected in these pro forma adjustments was $1,104 million for the period prior to July 1, 2005.
(a) Deconsolidation of DEFS
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to remove the $577 million gain on the transfer of Duke Energy's 19.7% interest in DEFS from Gains (Losses) on Sales of Other Assets, net.
(b) Gain on Transfer of 19.7% of DEFS
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to remove the $1,137 million gain on sale of TEPPCO GP ($793 million, net of minority interest, at the historical 69.7% investment) from equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates and the $105 million gain on sale of TEPPCO LP from Gains (Losses) on sales of equity investments.
(c) Gains on Sale of TEPPCO GP and TEPPCO LP
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to adjust Duke Energy's equity investment in and equity in earnings from DEFS for the period prior to July 1, 2005, excluding the gain on sale of TEPPCO GP discussed in adjustment (b) above, from a 69.7% investment to a 50% investment.
(d) Account for Investment in DEFS as a 50% Equity Investment
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to remove the historical operating results of Duke Energy's and DEFS' investments in TEPPCO LP from the Consolidated Statement of Operations.
(e) Operating results of TEPPCO LP
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to reflect the transfer of DEFS' Canadian natural gas and gathering and processing facilities from DEFS to Duke Energy in connection with the DEFS Disposition Transaction for the period prior to July 1, 2005.
(f) Transfer of Canadian Assets from DEFS to Duke Energy
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to reflect the transfer of ConocoPhillips' Empress System assets to Duke Energy in connection with the DEFS Disposition Transaction for the period prior to the acquisition.
(g) Transfer of Empress System Assets from ConocoPhillips to Duke Energy
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to de-designate all cash flow hedges related to DEFS commodity price risk and recognize any gains or losses on these hedges immediately in earnings. As a result of the pro forma effect of deconsolidating DEFS, Duke Energy would no longer be able to obtain hedge accounting for these hedge positions. In the historical Duke Energy consolidated financial statements, approximately $125 million of pretax unrealized losses were recognized in earnings for the first six months of 2005, which have been reclassified from impairment and other charges to other income and expenses, net as a pro forma adjustment assuming the deconsolidation of DEFS occurred as of January 1, 2005. Additionally, approximately $130 million of mark-to-market losses that were previously recognized in historical revenues for the first six months of 2005, have been reclassified to other income and expenses, net as a pro forma adjustment assuming the deconsolidation of DEFS occurred as of January 1, 2005. The pro forma adjustments also include historical hedge ineffectiveness and settlements of approximately $41 million for the first six months of 2005 which was classified in historical revenues, as well as changes in the fair value of the hedges of approximately $21 million for the first six months of 2005 which was classified in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders' equity.
(h) Derivative Hedge Impacts
Represents the income tax impact of the pro forma adjustments determined based on a statutory effective tax rate of approximately 37% for Duke Energy.
(i) Income Tax Provision
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to classify certain transactions related to purchases and sales between Duke Energy and DEFS as third party transactions upon the deconsolidation of DEFS.
(j) Intercompany Transactions
Certain adjustments have been made to Cinergy's historical presentation in order to conform to Duke Energy's historical presentation. These adjustments had no impact on the historical income from continuing operations reported by Cinergy. All utility revenues are presented as either regulated electric or gas, respectively, with one exception for CG&E electric generation. CG&E's electric generation business is presented as non-regulated electric revenues. Revenues derived from CG&E's retail electric generation business are approved through a public service commission order through 2008; however, CG&E generation does not follow Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation" and is therefore presented as non-regulated.
(k) Cinergy Historical Presentation
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to reflect the net incremental operating revenue, net incremental fuel and emission allowance expenses and net incremental gas storage expenses resulting from (1) the adjustment of emission allowances to fair value which increases the expense recognition of emission allowances consumed (see balance sheet note (d)), and (2) the amortization of the fair value adjustments related to certain of Cinergy's fuel contracts, gas storage contracts and power sale agreements (see balance sheet note (j)).
(l) Operating Revenues, Fuel used in Electric Generation and Purchased Power and Natural Gas and Petroleum Products Purchased
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to reflect an increase in net periodic pension and postretirement benefit expense resulting from certain amendments anticipated to be made to the features of the plans as well as the conformity of certain assumptions, partially offset by the elimination of the amortization of actuarial losses and amortization of unrecognized prior service costs and transition asset related to Cinergy's non-regulated pension and postretirement benefit obligations (see balance sheet Note (i)).
(m) Operation, Maintenance and Other
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to reflect the net incremental depreciation and amortization expense resulting primarily from the fair valuation of Cinergy's power generating assets. As discussed in balance sheet note (c), the amount of this adjustment is based on current estimates of the fair values of the related assets.
(n) Depreciation and Amortization Expense
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to reflect a net decrease in equity in earnings of unconsolidated investments in domestic and foreign entities, joint ventures and partnerships (see balance sheet note (e)) resulting from fair value adjustments relating to certain equity method investments being amortized over the average remaining life of the related long-lived assets of those investments.
(o) Equity in Earnings of Unconsolidated Affiliates
Represents the pro forma adjustment to interest expense resulting from the fair valuation of Cinergy's third-party debt related to its non-regulated operations (see balance sheet note (h)). The adjustment to reflect the fair value of the debt will be amortized as a reduction (in the case of a premium to book value) or an increase (in the case of a discount to book value) to interest expense over the remaining life of the individual debt issues.
(p) Interest Expense
Represents the pro forma adjustment to interest expense to reflect the elimination of historical amortization of deferred debt costs for debt related to Cinergy's non-regulated operations (see balance sheet note (f)).
(q) Interest Expense
Represents the pro forma adjustments required for transactions between Duke Energy and Cinergy included in each company's historical statements of operations. The underlying amounts in these adjustments relate primarily to purchases and sales of power and gas between the companies.
(r) Intercompany Transactions
Represents the pro forma tax effect of the above adjustments determined based on an estimated prospective statutory tax rate of approximately 40%.
(s) Income Tax Provision
Income from continuing operations available for common stockholders was increased to reflect the redemption of Duke Energy's preferred and preference stock as required by the merger agreement, which occurred in December 2005, and therefore no amounts related to dividends and premiums on redemption of preferred and preference stock were included in pro forma income from continuing operations available for common stockholders.
(t) Dividends and Premiums on Redemptions of Preferred and Preference Stock
The pro forma weighted average number of basic and diluted shares outstanding is calculated by adding Duke Energy's weighted average number of basic and diluted shares of common stock outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2005 and Cinergy's weighted average number of basic and diluted shares of common stock outstanding for the same period multiplied by the exchange ratio of 1.56 (shares in millions):
(u) Earnings Per Share and Shares Outstanding
 
 
Noteunless stated otherwise below, the adjustments are based primarily upon independent third party valuations that are in process of being performed. Accordingly, the adjustments are subject to revision based on book values as of the closing date and final determination of fair values following the completion of valuations but are not anticipated to result in a materially different impact to pro forma financial position from that presented herein.
Certain adjustments have been made to Cinergy's historical presentation in order to conform to Duke Energy's historical presentation.
(a) Cinergy Historical Presentation
The estimated total purchase price of the mergers, based on the market price of Duke Energy common stock during the period including the two trading days before through the two trading days after May 9, 2005, the date Duke Energy and Cinergy agreed to and announced the mergers, and the excess of purchase price over the book values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is as follows ($ in millions):
(b) Goodwill
 
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price, as shown in the table above, is allocated to Cinergy's net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The preliminary adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed are as follows ($ in millions):
 
Pursuant to SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill is not amortized; rather, impairment tests are performed at least annually or more frequently if circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. If an impairment exists, the goodwill is immediately written down to its fair value through a current charge to earnings. Accordingly, the goodwill arising from the mergers will be subject to an impairment test at least annually.
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to record Cinergy's non-regulated power generating assets at estimated fair value. This adjustment was determined based on valuations in process and primarily reflects estimates of depreciated replacement costs. The adjustment will be depreciated over the estimated remaining useful lives of the underlying assets.
(c) Power Generating Assets
Represents the pro forma adjustment to record at fair value the emission allowances held by Cinergy's non-regulated operations. This adjustment was determined based primarily on market information.
(d) Emission Allowances
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to record at fair value Cinergy's non-consolidated equity investments in domestic and foreign entities, joint ventures, partnerships, and other cost method investments.
(e) Investments
Represents the pro forma adjustment to eliminate Cinergy's deferred debt costs related to its non-regulated operations.
(f) Deferred Debt Costs
Represents the pro forma adjustment related to costs incurred by Duke Energy that are directly attributable to the mergers of approximately $65 million and certain payments already made and to be made to Cinergy employees as a result of the mergers of approximately $165 million (including approximately $70 million recorded as prepaid assets at December 31, 2005).
(g) Accrued and Prepaid Expenses
Represents the pro forma adjustment ($10 million for debt and $10 million for guarantees) required to record Cinergy's third-party debt and guarantees related to its non-regulated operations at estimated fair value. The increase in the fair value of the debt will be amortized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt.
(h) Debt, Notes Payable and Guarantees
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to record Cinergy's pension and postretirement benefit obligations to reflect the difference between the actuarially-determined present value of the estimated accrued obligations and the estimated fair values of any related plan assets, including elimination of previously deferred losses, and the related historical intangible asset of $43 million. The adjustment also reflects certain amendments anticipated to be made to the features of the plans as well as the conformity of certain assumptions. $419 million of the adjustment to record Cinergy's pension and postretirement obligations at fair value was recorded as a regulatory asset as management believe that those amounts are probable of recovery in regulated rates and $27 million of the adjustment was recorded as a prepaid pension asset.
(i) Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations
Represents the pro forma adjustment required to record, at estimated fair market value, Cinergy's fuel, gas storage, and power sale contracts (including CG&E's Rate Stabilization Plan) that do not qualify as derivatives or are accounted for as "normal purchase, normal sale" transactions under SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities," as amended. These adjustments will be amortized to earnings based on the remaining lives of the underlying contracts.
(j) Power, Gas Storage, and Fuel Contracts
The net current deferred tax asset represents the estimated impact on the allocation of purchase price to current assets and liabilities. The net non-current deferred tax liability represents the estimated impact on the allocation of purchase price to non-current assets and liabilities. This estimate is based on an estimated prospective statutory tax rate of approximately 40% and could change based on finalization of the combined company's tax position.
(k) Deferred Income Taxes
Represents pro forma adjustments to eliminate the historical common stockholders' equity of Cinergy.
(l) Common Stockholders' Equity
Represents the pro forma adjustments required to eliminate transactions between Duke Energy and Cinergy included in each company's historical balance sheets. The underlying amounts in these adjustments relate primarily to purchases and sales of power and gas between the companies.
(m) Intercompany Transactions


