FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20061027171013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 OR 15(d) of The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
(formerly Duke Energy Holding Corp.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
              
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
              
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
              
 
 
Item 1.01               Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
Approval of 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan
The shareholders of Duke Energy Corporation (the "Company") approved the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2006 Plan") at the annual meeting of the Company's shareholders on October 24, 2006.  The 2006 Plan replaces the Company's existing long-term incentive plans (although awards previously granted under those plans remain outstanding in accordance with their terms).  The 2006 Plan generally authorizes the Company's Compensation Committee to grant equity-based compensation to the Company's key employees and non-employee directors in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted shares, performance shares, performance units, phantom stock, stock bonuses and dividend equivalents.  The Company reserved 60,000,000 shares of its common stock for issuance under the 2006 Plan.  The foregoing description of the 2006 Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K.
Approval of Compensation for the President & Chief Executive Officer of Gas Business
On October 23, 2006, the Compensation Committee established the annual base salary, short-term incentive opportunity and long-term incentive opportunity for Mr. Fred J. Fowler, who will serve as the President & Chief Executive Officer of the gas company following the Company's separation of its gas business.  Effective as of the date of the spin-off of the Company's gas business, Mr. Fowler's annual base salary will be $950,000, his target short-term incentive opportunity level will be 90% of annual base salary, and his long-term incentive opportunity level will be 220% of his annual base salary.
Approval of Severance and Consulting Arrangement for Dr. Ruth G. Shaw
The Company previously announced that Dr. Ruth G. Shaw would retire on April 30, 2007.  In connection with her retirement, on October 23, 2006, the Compensation Committee approved a Severance and Consulting Agreement for Dr. Shaw.  Pursuant to the terms of this agreement, Dr. Shaw will receive, upon her retirement, the severance benefits contemplated under the Key Employee Severance Agreement and Release that she entered into with the Company on August 18, 1999.  In particular, she will receive: (i) a lump sum payment equal to two times her annual base salary and target annual bonus, (ii) a lump sum payment equal to the anticipated premiums that she will pay for continued medical, dental and life insurance coverage for a period of two years, (iii) a lump sum payment equal to the contributions that she would have received or accrued under the Company's retirement plans had she continued employment for an additional two years, (iv) continued vesting of certain equity awards for a two-year period, and (v) a pro-rated target annual bonus for the 2007 period.  In addition, in consideration for providing consulting services for a two-year period commencing on May 1, 2007, Dr. Shaw will receive $25,000 per month for a three-year period commencing May 2008.  The Company may terminate the consulting agreement, in its sole discretion, if Dr. Shaw becomes employed by another employer during the consulting period.  Dr. Shaw will waive the right to receive severance or other benefits under her Severance and Retention Agreement dated April 4, 2006.  The foregoing description of the Severance and Consulting Agreement between the Company and Dr. Shaw is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K.
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 10.1
1.     PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
The purpose of the Corporation's 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan is to promote the interests of the Corporation and its shareholders by strengthening the Corporation's ability to attract, motivate and retain key employees and directors of the Corporation upon whose judgment, initiative and efforts the financial success and growth of the business of the Corporation largely depend, and to provide an additional incentive for key employees and directors through stock ownership and other rights that promote and recognize the financial success and growth of the Corporation.
2.     DEFINITIONS
Wherever the following capitalized terms are used in this Plan they shall have the meanings specified below:
(a) "Award" means an award of an Option, Restricted Stock, Stock Appreciation Right, Performance Award, Phantom Stock, Stock Bonus or Dividend Equivalent granted under the Plan.
(b) "Award Agreement" means an agreement entered into between the Corporation and a Participant setting forth the terms and conditions of an Award granted to a Participant.
(c)  "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.
(d)  "Change in Control" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13 hereof.
(e)  "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
(f) "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee or subcommittee of the Board or group of individuals appointed by the Board to administer the Plan from time to time.
(g) "Common Stock" means the common stock of the Corporation, without par value, or any security into which such Common Stock may be changed by reason of any transaction or event of the type described in Section 3.2.
(h) "Corporation" means Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
(i) "Date of Grant" means the date on which an Award under the Plan is made by the Committee (which date shall not be earlier than the date on which the Committee takes action with respect thereto), or such later date as the Committee may specify that the Award becomes effective.
(j) "Dividend Equivalent" means an Award under Section 12 hereof entitling the Participant to receive payments with respect to dividends declared on the Common Stock.
(k) "Effective Date" means the Effective Date of this Plan, as defined in Section 16.1 hereof.
(l) "Eligible Person" means any person who is an Employee or an Independent Director.
(m) "Employee" means any person who is a key employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or who has agreed to serve in such capacity within 90 days after the Date of Grant; provided, however, that with
respect to Incentive Stock Options, "Employee" means any person who is considered an employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary for purposes of Treasury Regulation Section 1.421-1(h).
(n) "Fair Market Value" of a share of Common Stock as of a given date means the closing sales price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange as reflected on the composite index on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined or, in the absence of any reported sales of Common Stock on such date, on the first preceding date on which any such sale shall have been reported. If Common Stock is not listed on the New York Stock Exchange on the date as of which Fair Market Value is to be determined, the Committee shall determine in good faith the Fair Market Value in whatever manner it considers appropriate (but in any event such amount shall not be less than fair market value within the meaning of section 409A of the Code).
(o) "Incentive Stock Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock that is intended to qualify as an incentive stock option under section 422 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(p) "Independent Director" means a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
(q) "Nonqualified Stock Option" means an option to purchase Common Stock that is not an Incentive Stock Option.
(r) "Option" means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option granted under Section 6 hereof.
(s) "Participant" means any Eligible Person who holds an outstanding Award under the Plan.
(t) "Performance Award" means an Award made under Section 9 hereof entitling a Participant to a payment based on the Fair Market Value of Common Stock (a "Performance Share") or based on specified dollar units (a "Performance Unit") at the end of a performance period if certain conditions established by the Committee are satisfied.
(u) "Phantom Stock" means an Award under Section 10 hereof entitling a Participant to a payment at the end of a vesting period of a unit value based on the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock.
(v) "Plan" means this 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan as set forth herein, and as it may be further amended from time to time.
(w) "Restricted Stock" means an Award under Section 8 hereof entitling a Participant to shares of Common Stock that are nontransferable and subject to forfeiture until specific conditions established by the Committee are satisfied.
(x) "Section 162(m)" means section 162(m) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
(y) "Section 162(m) Participant" means any Participant who, in the sole judgment of the Committee, could be treated as a "covered employee" under Section 162(m) at the time income may be recognized by such Participant in connection with an Award that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m).
(z) "Stock Appreciation Right" or "SAR" means an Award under Section 7 hereof entitling a Participant to receive an amount, representing the difference between the base price per share of the right and the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise.
(aa) "Stock Bonus" means an Award under Section 11 hereof entitling a Participant to receive an unrestricted share of Common Stock.
2
(bb) "Subsidiary" means an entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, or any other affiliate of the Corporation that is so designated, from time to time, by the Committee, provided, however, that with respect to Incentive Stock Options, the term "Subsidiary" shall not include any entity that does not qualify within the meaning of section 424(f) of the Code as a "subsidiary corporation" with respect to the Corporation.
3.     SHARES OF COMMON STOCK SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
3.1. . Subject to the following provisions of this Section 3, the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock that may be issued pursuant to all Awards under the Plan is 60,000,000 shares of Common Stock. Shares of Common Stock that are issued in connection with all Awards other than Options and SARs shall be counted against the 60,000,000 limit described above as four shares of Common Stock for every one share of Common Stock that is issued in connection with such Award. No more than 60,000,000 shares of Common Stock may be issued pursuant to Incentive Stock Options. The shares of Common Stock to be delivered under the Plan will be made available from authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or treasury stock. If any share of Common Stock that is the subject of an Award is not issued and ceases to be issuable for any reason, or is forfeited, canceled or returned to the Corporation for failure to satisfy vesting requirements or upon the occurrence of other forfeiture events, such share of Common Stock will no longer be charged against the foregoing maximum share limitations and may again be made subject to Awards under the Plan pursuant to such limitations. Common Stock covered by an Award granted under the Plan shall not be counted unless and until it is actually issued or transferred to a Participant.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, upon payment in cash of the benefit provided by any Award granted under the Plan, any Common Stock that is covered by the Award will be available for issue or transfer hereunder.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, (A) Common Stock tendered in payment of the exercise price of an Option shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above; (B) Common Stock withheld by the Corporation to satisfy a tax withholding obligation shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above; (C) Common Stock that is repurchased by the Corporation with Option proceeds shall not be added to the aggregate Plan limit described above and (D) all Common Stock covered by an SAR, to the extent that it is exercised and settled in Common Stock, and whether or not Common Stock is actually issued or transferred to the Participant upon exercise of the SAR, shall be considered issued or transferred pursuant to the Plan.
Number of Shares
3.2. . If there shall occur any merger, consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Common Stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the Common Stock, then the Committee shall, in the manner and to the extent that it deems appropriate and equitable to the Participants and consistent with the terms of this Plan, cause a proportionate adjustment to be made in (i) the maximum numbers and kind of shares provided in Section 3.1 hereof, (ii) the maximum numbers and kind of shares set forth in Sections 6.1, 7.1, 8.2 and 9.4 hereof, (iii) the number and kind of shares of Common Stock, share units, or other rights subject to the then-outstanding Awards, (iv) the price for each share or unit or other right subject to then outstanding Awards without change in the aggregate purchase price or value as to which such Awards remain exercisable or subject to restrictions, (v) the performance targets or goals appropriate to any outstanding Performance Awards (subject to such limitations as appropriate for Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m)) or (vi) any other terms of an Award that are affected by the event. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under the Plan such alternative consideration (including cash) as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable under the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 409A of the Code and, in the case of Incentive Stock Options, any such adjustments shall be made in a manner consistent with the requirements of section 424(a) of the Code.
Adjustments
4.     ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
4.1. . Except as provided in Section 4.4 hereof, the Plan will be administered by the Committee, which unless otherwise determined by the Board will consist solely of two or more persons who satisfy
Committee Members
3
the requirements for a "nonemployee director" under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and/or the requirements for an "outside director" under Section 162(m). The Committee may exercise such powers and authority as may be necessary or appropriate for the Committee to carry out its functions as described in the Plan. No member of the Committee will be liable for any action or determination made in good faith by the Committee with respect to the Plan or any Award under it.
4.2. . Subject to the express limitations of the Plan, the Committee has authority in its discretion to determine the Eligible Persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards may be granted, the number of shares, units or other rights subject to each Award, the exercise, base or purchase price of an Award (if any), the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the performance criteria, performance goals and other conditions of an Award, and the duration of the Award. The Committee also has discretionary authority to interpret the Plan, to make all factual determinations under the Plan, and to determine the terms and provisions of the respective Award Agreements and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for Plan administration. The Committee has authority to prescribe, amend, and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan. All interpretations, determinations, and actions by the Committee will be final, conclusive, and binding upon all parties.
Discretionary Authority
4.3. . The Committee shall have the authority to effect, at any time and from time to time, with the consent of the affected Participants, (i) the cancellation of any or all outstanding Awards and the grant in substitution therefor of new Awards covering the same or different numbers of shares of Common Stock and having an exercise or base price which may be the same as or different than the exercise or base price of the canceled Awards or (ii) the amendment of the terms of any and all outstanding Awards; provided, however, that the Committee shall not have the authority to reduce the exercise or base price of an Award by amendment or cancellation and substitution of an existing Award without the approval of the Corporation's shareholders. The Committee may in its discretion accelerate the vesting or exercisability of an Award at any time or on the basis of any specified event.
Changes to Awards
4.4. . The Committee shall have the right, from time to time, to delegate to one or more officers or directors of the Corporation the authority of the Committee to grant and determine the terms and conditions of Awards under the Plan, subject to such limitations as the Committee shall determine; provided, however, that no such authority may be delegated with respect to Awards made to any member of the Board or any Section 162(m) Participant.
Delegation of Authority
4.5. . An Award to an Independent Director under the Plan shall be approved by the Board. With respect to Awards to Independent Directors, all rights, powers and authorities vested in the Committee under the Plan shall instead be exercised by the Board, and all provisions of the Plan relating to the Committee shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the foregoing by treating any such reference as a reference to the Board for such purpose.
Awards to Independent Directors
5.     ELIGIBILITY AND AWARDS
All Eligible Persons are eligible to be designated by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan. The Committee has authority, in its sole discretion, to determine and designate from time to time those Eligible Persons who are to be granted Awards, the types of Awards to be granted and the number of shares or units subject to the Awards that are granted under the Plan. Each Award will be evidenced by an Award Agreement as described in Section 14 hereof between the Corporation and the Participant that shall include the terms and conditions consistent with the Plan as the Committee may determine.
6.     STOCK OPTIONS
6.1. . An Option may be granted to any Eligible Person selected by the Committee; provided, however, that only Employees shall be eligible for Awards of Incentive Stock Options. Each Option shall be designated, at the discretion of the Committee, as an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonqualified Stock Option. The
Grant of Option
4
maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be granted under Options to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be limited to 3,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
6.2. . The exercise price of the Option shall be determined by the Committee; provided, however, that the exercise price per share of an Option shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value per share of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Exercise Price
6.3. . The Committee, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe in the Award Agreement the time or times at which, or the conditions upon which, an Option or portion thereof shall become vested and exercisable, and may accelerate the exercisability of any Option at any time. An Option may become vested and exercisable upon a Participant's retirement, death, disability, Change in Control or other event, to the extent provided in an Award Agreement. The period during which a vested Option may be exercised shall be ten years from the Date of Grant, unless a shorter exercise period is specified by the Committee in an Award Agreement, and subject to such limitations as may apply under an Award Agreement relating to the termination of a Participant's employment or other service with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Vesting; Term of Option
6.4. . Subject to such terms and conditions as shall be specified in an Award Agreement, an Option may be exercised in whole or in part at any time during the term thereof by notice to the Corporation together with payment of the aggregate exercise price therefor. Payment of the exercise price shall be made (i) in cash or by cash equivalent, (ii) at the discretion of the Committee, in shares of Common Stock acceptable to the Committee, valued at the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of exercise, (iii) at the discretion of the Committee, by a delivery of a notice that the Participant has placed a market sell order (or similar instruction) with a broker with respect to shares of Common Stock then issuable upon exercise of the Option, and that the broker has been directed to pay a sufficient portion of the net proceeds of the sale to the Corporation in satisfaction of the Option exercise price (conditioned upon the payment of such net proceeds), (iv) at the discretion of the Committee, by withholding from delivery shares of Common Stock for which the Option is otherwise exercised, (v) at the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of the methods described above or (vi) by such other method as may be approved by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement. In addition to and at the time of payment of the exercise price, the Participant shall pay to the Corporation the full amount of any and all applicable income tax and employment tax amounts required to be withheld in connection with such exercise, payable under one or more of the methods described above for the payment of the exercise price of the Options or as otherwise may be approved by the Committee.
Option Exercise; Withholding
6.5. . Solely to the extent permitted by the Committee in an Award Agreement and subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee shall specify, a Nonqualified Stock Option (but not an Incentive Stock Option) may be transferred to members of the Participant's immediate family (as determined by the Committee) or to trusts, partnerships or corporations whose beneficiaries, members or owners are members of the Participant's immediate family, and/or to such other persons or entities as may be approved by the Committee in advance and set forth in an Award Agreement, in each case subject to the condition that the Committee be satisfied that such transfer is being made for estate or tax planning purposes or for gratuitous or donative purposes, without consideration (other than nominal consideration) being received therefor. Except to the extent permitted by the Committee in accordance with the foregoing, an Option shall be nontransferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant.
Limited Transferability
6.6. .
Additional Rules for Incentive Stock Options
(a) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted to a Participant as a result of which the aggregate fair market value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the stock with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time in any calendar year under the Plan, and any other stock option plans of the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any parent corporation, would exceed $100,000 (or such other amount provided under section 422(d) of the Code), determined in accordance with section 422(d) of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder. This limitation shall be applied by taking options into account in the order in which granted.
Annual Limits
5
(b) . An Award Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Option may be exercised not later than 3 months following termination of employment of the Participant with the Corporation and all Subsidiaries, subject to special rules relating to death and disability, as and to the extent determined by the Committee to be appropriate with regard to the requirements of section 422 of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Termination of Employment
(c) . Any Incentive Stock Option granted hereunder shall contain such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of this Plan, as are deemed necessary or desirable by the Committee, which terms, together with the terms of this Plan, shall be intended and interpreted to cause such Incentive Stock Option to qualify as an "incentive stock option" under section 422 of the Code and Treasury Regulations thereunder. Such terms shall include, if applicable, limitations on Incentive Stock Options granted to ten-percent owners of the Corporation. An Award Agreement for an Incentive Stock Option may provide that such Option shall be treated as a Nonqualified Stock Option to the extent that certain requirements applicable to "incentive stock options" under the Code shall not be satisfied. An Incentive Stock Option shall by its terms be nontransferable otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and shall be exercisable during the lifetime of a Participant only by such Participant.
Other Terms and Conditions; Nontransferability
(d) . If shares of Common Stock acquired by exercise of an Incentive Stock Option are disposed of within two years following the Date of Grant or one year following the transfer of such shares to the Participant upon exercise, the Participant shall, promptly following such disposition, notify the Corporation in writing of the date and terms of such disposition and provide such other information regarding the disposition as the Committee may reasonably require.
Disqualifying Dispositions
7.     STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
7.1. . A Stock Appreciation Right granted to a Participant is an Award in the form of a right to receive, upon surrender of the right, but without other payment, an amount based on appreciation in the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock over a base price established for the Award, exercisable at such time or times and upon conditions as may be approved by the Committee. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to SARs granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be limited to 3,000,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Grant of SARs
7.2. . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted in connection with an Option, either at the time of grant or at any time thereafter during the term of the Option. An SAR granted in connection with an Option will entitle the holder, upon exercise, to surrender such Option or any portion thereof to the extent unexercised, with respect to the number of shares as to which such SAR is exercised, and to receive payment of an amount computed as described in Section 7.4 hereof. Such Option will, to the extent and when surrendered, cease to be exercisable. An SAR granted in connection with an Option hereunder will have a base price per share equal to the per share exercise price of the Option, will be exercisable at such time or times, and only to the extent, that a related Option is exercisable, and will expire no later than the related Option expires.
Tandem SARs
7.3. . A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted without relationship to an Option and, in such case, will be exercisable as determined by the Committee, but in no event after 10 years from the Date of Grant. The base price of an SAR granted without relationship to an Option shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided, however, that the base price per share of a freestanding SAR shall not be less than 100 percent of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant.
Freestanding SARs
7.4. . An SAR will entitle the holder, upon exercise of the SAR, to receive payment of an amount determined by multiplying: (i) the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the base price of such SAR, by (ii) the number of shares as to which such SAR will have been exercised. Payment of the amount determined under the foregoing may be made, in the discretion of the Committee as set forth in the Award Agreement, in cash, in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the date of exercise, or in a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock.
Payment of SARs
6
8.     RESTRICTED STOCK
8.1. . An Award of Restricted Stock to a Participant represents shares of Common Stock that are issued subject to such restrictions on transfer and other incidents of ownership and such forfeiture conditions as the Committee may determine. The Committee may, in connection with an Award of Restricted Stock, require the payment of a specified purchase price. The Committee may grant Awards of Restricted Stock that are intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), as well as Awards of Restricted Stock that are not intended to so qualify.
Grants of Restricted Stock
8.2. . The restrictions imposed on an Award of Restricted Stock shall lapse in accordance with the vesting requirements specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement. Such vesting requirements may be based on the continued employment or service of the Participant with the Corporation or its Subsidiaries for a specified time period or periods, provided that any such restriction shall not be scheduled to lapse in its entirety earlier than the first anniversary of the Date of Grant. Such vesting requirements may also be based on the attainment of specified business goals or measures established by the Committee in its sole discretion. In the case of any Award of Restricted Stock that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), the vesting requirements shall be limited to the performance criteria identified in Section 9.3 below, and the terms of the Award shall otherwise comply with the Section 162(m) requirements described in Section 9.4 hereof. The maximum number of shares of Common Stock that may be subject to an Award of Restricted Stock granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be separately limited to 600,000 shares (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Vesting Requirements
8.3. . Shares of Restricted Stock may not be transferred, assigned or subject to any encumbrance, pledge or charge until all applicable restrictions are removed or expire or unless otherwise allowed by the Committee. The Committee may require the Participant to enter into an escrow agreement providing that the certificates representing Restricted Stock granted or sold pursuant to the Plan will remain in the physical custody of an escrow holder until all restrictions are removed or expire. Failure to satisfy any applicable restrictions shall result in the subject shares of Restricted Stock being forfeited and returned to the Corporation, with any purchase price paid by the Participant to be refunded, unless otherwise provided by the Committee. The Committee may require that certificates representing Restricted Stock granted under the Plan bear a legend making appropriate reference to the restrictions imposed.
Restrictions
8.4. . Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section 8 and the applicable Award Agreement, the Participant will have all rights of a shareholder with respect to shares of Restricted Stock granted to him, including the right to vote the shares and receive all dividends and other distributions paid or made with respect thereto, unless the Committee determines otherwise at the time the Restricted Stock is granted, as set forth in the Award Agreement.
Rights as Shareholder
8.5. . The Committee may provide in an Award Agreement that the Award of Restricted Stock is conditioned upon the Participant refraining from making an election with respect to the Award under section 83(b) of the Code. Irrespective of whether an Award is so conditioned, if a Participant makes an election pursuant to section 83(b) of the Code with respect to an Award of Restricted Stock, the Participant shall be required to promptly file a copy of such election with the Corporation.
Section 83(b) Election
9.     PERFORMANCE AWARDS
9.1. . The Committee may grant Performance Awards under the Plan, which shall be represented by units denominated on the Date of Grant either in shares of Common Stock (Performance Shares) or in specified dollar amounts (Performance Units). The Committee may grant Performance Awards that are intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), as well as Performance Awards that are not intended to so qualify. At the time a Performance Award is granted, the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, one or more performance periods and performance goals to be achieved during the applicable performance periods, as well as such other restrictions and conditions as the Committee deems appropriate. In the case of Performance Units, the Committee shall also determine a target unit value or a range of unit values for each Award. No performance period
Grant of Performance Awards
7
shall exceed ten years from the Date of Grant. The performance goals applicable to a Performance Award grant may be subject to such later revisions as the Committee shall deem appropriate to reflect significant unforeseen events such as changes in law, accounting practices or unusual or nonrecurring items or occurrences. Any such adjustments shall be subject to such limitations as the Committee deems appropriate in the case of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant that is intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m).
9.2. . At the end of the performance period, the Committee shall determine the extent to which performance goals have been attained or a degree of achievement between minimum and maximum levels in order to establish the level of payment to be made, if any, and shall determine if payment is to be made in the form of cash or shares of Common Stock (valued at their Fair Market Value at the time of payment) or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock. Payments of Performance Awards shall generally be made as soon as practicable following the end of the performance period.
Payment of Performance Awards
9.3. . The performance criteria upon which the payment or vesting of a Performance Award intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) may be based shall be limited to the following business measures, which may be applied with respect to the Corporation, any Subsidiary or any business unit, or, if applicable, any Participant, and which may be measured on an absolute or relative to a peer-group or other market measure basis: total shareholder return; stock price increase; return on equity; return on capital; earnings per share; EBIT (earnings before interest and taxes); EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); ongoing earnings; cash flow (including operating cash flow, free cash flow, discounted cash flow return on investment, and cash flow in excess of costs of capital); EVA (economic value added); economic profit (net operating profit after tax, less a cost of capital charge); SVA (shareholder value added); revenues; net income; operating income; pre-tax profit margin; performance against business plan; customer service; corporate governance quotient or rating; market share; employee satisfaction; safety; employee engagement; supplier diversity; workforce diversity; operating margins; credit rating; dividend payments; expenses; fuel cost per million BTU; costs per kilowatt hour; retained earnings; completion of acquisitions, divestitures and corporate restructurings; and individual goals based on objective business criteria underlying the goals listed above and which pertain to individual effort as to achievement of those goals or to one or more business criteria in the areas of litigation, human resources, information services, production, inventory, support services, site development, plant development, building development, facility development, government relations, product market share or management.  In the case of Performance Awards that are not intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m), the Committee shall designate performance criteria from among the foregoing or such other business criteria as it shall determine it its sole discretion.
Performance Criteria
9.4. . In the case of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant that is intended to comply with the requirements for exemption under Section 162(m), the Committee shall make all determinations necessary to establish a Performance Award within 90 days of the beginning of the performance period (or such other time period required under Section 162(m)), including, without limitation, the designation of the Section 162(m) Participants to whom Performance Awards are made, the performance criteria or criterion applicable to the Award and the performance goals that relate to such criteria, and the dollar amounts or number of shares of Common Stock payable upon achieving the applicable performance goals. As and to the extent required by Section 162(m), the terms of a Performance Award granted to a Section 162(m) Participant must state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the method of computing the amount of compensation payable to the Section 162(m) Participant, and must preclude discretion to increase the amount of compensation payable that would otherwise be due under the terms of the Award, and, prior to the payment of such compensation, the Committee shall have certified in writing that the applicable performance goal has been satisfied. The maximum amount of compensation that may be payable under Performance Units granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall not exceed $3,750,000. The maximum number of Common Stock units that may be subject to a Performance Share Award granted to any one Participant during any one calendar year shall be 600,000 share units (subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 hereof).
Section 162(m) Requirements
8
10.  PHANTOM STOCK
10.1. . Phantom Stock is an Award to a Participant of a number of hypothetical share units with respect to shares of Common Stock, with an initial value based on the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Date of Grant. Phantom Stock shall be subject to such restrictions and conditions as the Committee shall determine. On the Date of Grant, the Committee shall determine, in its sole discretion, the installment or other vesting period of the Phantom Stock and the maximum value of the Phantom Stock, if any. No vesting period shall exceed 10 years from the Date of Grant.
Grant of Phantom Stock
10.2. . Upon the vesting date or dates applicable to Phantom Stock granted to a Participant, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of one share of Common Stock upon such vesting dates (subject to any applicable maximum value) shall be paid with respect to such Phantom Stock unit granted to the Participant. Payment may be made, at the discretion of the Committee, in cash or in shares of Common Stock valued at their Fair Market Value on the applicable vesting dates, or in a combination thereof.
Payment of Phantom Stock
11.  STOCK BONUS
11.1. . An Award of a Stock Bonus to a Participant represents a specified number of shares of Common Stock that are issued without restrictions on transfer or forfeiture conditions. The Committee may, in connection with an Award of a Stock Bonus, require the payment of a specified purchase price.
Grant of Stock Bonus
11.2 .  In the event that the Committee grants a Stock Bonus, a certificate for (or book entry representing) the shares of Common Stock constituting such Stock Bonus shall be issued in the name of the Participant to whom such grant was made as soon as practicable after the date on which such Stock Bonus is payable.
Payment of Stock Bonus
12.  DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS
12.1. . A Dividend Equivalent granted to a Participant is an Award in the form of a right to receive cash payments determined by reference to dividends declared on the Common Stock from time to time during the term of the Award, which shall not exceed 10 years from the Date of Grant. Dividend Equivalents may be granted on a stand-alone basis or in tandem with other Awards. Dividend Equivalents granted on a tandem basis shall expire at the time the underlying Award is exercised or otherwise becomes payable to the Participant, or expires.
Grant of Dividend Equivalents
12.2. . Dividend Equivalent Awards shall be payable in cash or in shares of Common Stock, valued at their Fair Market Value on either the date the related dividends are declared or the Dividend Equivalents are paid to a Participant, as determined by the Committee. Dividend Equivalents shall be payable to a Participant as soon as practicable following the time dividends are declared and paid with respect to the Common Stock, or at such later date as the Committee shall specify in the Award Agreement. Dividend Equivalents granted with respect to Options shall be payable, in accordance with the terms and in compliance with section 409A of the Code, regardless of whether the Option is exercised.
Payment of Dividend Equivalents
13.  CHANGE IN CONTROL
13.1. . The Committee may, in an Award Agreement, provide for the effect of a Change in Control on an Award. Such provisions may include any one or more of the following: (i) the acceleration or extension of time periods for purposes of exercising, vesting in, or realizing gain from any Award, (ii) the waiver or modification of performance or other conditions related to the payment or other rights under an Award; (iii) provision for the cash settlement of an Award for an equivalent cash value, as determined by the Committee, or (iv) such other modification or adjustment to an Award as the Committee deems appropriate to maintain and protect the rights and interests of Participants upon or following a Change in Control.
Effect of Change in Control
13.2. . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, for purposes hereof, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon:
Definition of Change in Control
9
(a) an acquisition subsequent to the Effective Date hereof by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of thirty percent (30%) or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; excluding, however, the following: (1) any acquisition directly from the Corporation, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted was itself acquired directly from the Corporation, (2) any acquisition by the Corporation and (3) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Corporation or any Subsidiary;
(b) during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the Effective Date), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board (and any new directors whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Corporation's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was so approved) cease for any reason (except for death, disability or voluntary retirement) to constitute a majority thereof;
(c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar corporate transaction which has been approved by the shareholders of the Corporation, whether or not the Corporation is the surviving corporation in such transaction, other than a merger, consolidation, or reorganization that would result in the voting securities of the Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Corporation (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation, or reorganization;
(d) the consummation of (A) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation or (B) a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Corporation, which has been approved by the shareholders of the Corporation (in each case, exclusive of any transactions or events resulting from the separation of the Corporation's gas and electric businesses); or
(e) adoption by the Board of a resolution to the effect that any person has acquired effective control of the business and affairs of the Corporation;
provided that no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred in regard to any transactions contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of May 8, 2005 by and among Duke Energy Corporation, Cinergy Corp., Deer Holding Corp., Deer Acquisition Corp. and Cougar Acquisition Corp., as it may be amended.
14.  AWARD AGREEMENTS
14.1. . Each Award under this Plan shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in a form approved by the Committee setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock, units or other rights (as applicable) subject to the Award, the exercise, base or purchase price (if any) of the Award, the time or times at which an Award will become vested, exercisable or payable, the duration of the Award and, in the case of Performance Awards, the applicable performance criteria and goals. The Award Agreement shall also set forth other material terms and conditions applicable to the Award as determined by the Committee consistent with the limitations of this Plan. Award Agreements evidencing Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable requirements of Section 162(m). Award Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such terms and conditions as may be necessary to meet the applicable provisions of section 422 of the Code.
Form of Agreement
14.2. . The Award Agreements may include provisions describing the treatment of an Award in the event of the retirement, disability, death or other termination of a Participant's employment with or other services to the Corporation and all Subsidiaries, such as provisions relating to the vesting, exercisability,
Termination of Service
10
acceleration, forfeiture or cancellation of the Award in these circumstances, including any such provisions as may be appropriate for Incentive Stock Options as described in Section 6.6(b) hereof.
14.3. . The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events shall include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, violation of material Corporation or Subsidiary policies, breach of noncompetition, confidentiality or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Forfeiture Events
14.4. . Any obligation of the Corporation to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon contractual obligations created by an Award Agreement. No Award shall be enforceable until the Award Agreement has been signed on behalf of the Corporation (electronically or otherwise) by its authorized representative and acknowledged by the Participant (electronically or otherwise) and returned to the Corporation. By executing the Award Agreement, a Participant shall be deemed to have accepted and consented to the terms of this Plan and any action taken in good faith under this Plan by and within the discretion of the Committee, the Board or their delegates. Award Agreements covering outstanding Awards may be amended or modified by the Committee in any manner that may be permitted for the grant of Awards under the Plan, subject to the consent of the Participant to the extent provided in the Award Agreement. In accordance with such procedures as the Corporation may prescribe, a Participant may sign or otherwise execute an Award Agreement and may consent to amendments of modifications of Award Agreements covering outstanding Awards by electronic means.
Contract Rights; Amendment
15.  GENERAL PROVISIONS
15.1. . Except as provided in Section 6.5 hereof, Awards under the Plan shall not be assignable or transferable, except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and during the lifetime of a Participant the Award shall be exercised only by such Participant or by his guardian or legal representative. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may provide in the terms of an Award Agreement that the Participant shall have the right to designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries who shall be entitled to any rights, payments or other specified benefits under an Award following the Participant's death.
No Assignment or Transfer; Beneficiaries
15.2. . The Committee may permit a Participant to defer the receipt of payment of cash or delivery of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be due to the Participant by virtue of the exercise of a right or the satisfaction of vesting or other conditions with respect to an Award. If any such deferral is to be permitted by the Committee, the Committee shall establish the rules and procedures relating to such deferral, including, without limitation, the period of time in advance of payment when an election to defer may be made, the time period of the deferral and the events that would result in payment of the deferred amount, the interest or other earnings attributable to the deferral and the method of funding, if any, attributable to the deferred amount. Unless otherwise expressly agreed between the Participant and the Corporation, any such deferral shall be effected in accordance with the requirements of section 409A of the Code so as to avoid any imposition of a tax under section 409A of the Code.
Deferrals of Payment
15.3. . A Participant shall have no rights as a holder of Common Stock with respect to any unissued securities covered by an Award until the date the Participant becomes the holder of record of those securities. Except as provided in Section 3.2 or Section 8.4 hereof, no adjustment or other provision shall be made for dividends or other shareholder rights, except to the extent that the Award Agreement provides for Dividend Equivalents, dividend payments or similar economic benefits.
Rights as Shareholder
15.4. . Nothing in the Plan, in the grant of any Award or in any Award Agreement shall confer upon any Eligible Person the right to continue in the capacity in which he is employed by or otherwise serves the Corporation or any Subsidiary.
Employment or Service
11
15.5. . No shares of Common Stock will be issued or transferred pursuant to an Award unless and until all then applicable requirements imposed by federal and state securities and other laws, rules and regulations and by any regulatory agencies having jurisdiction, and by any stock exchanges upon which the Common Stock may be listed, have been fully met. As a condition precedent to the issuance of shares pursuant to the grant or exercise of an Award, the Corporation may require the Participant to take any reasonable action to meet such requirements. The Committee may impose such conditions on any shares of Common Stock issuable under the Plan as it may deem advisable, including, without limitation, restrictions under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, under the requirements of any stock exchange upon which such shares of the same class are then listed, and under any blue sky or other securities laws applicable to such shares.
Securities Laws
15.6. . The Participant shall be responsible for payment of any taxes or similar charges required by law to be withheld from an Award or an amount paid in satisfaction of an Award, which shall be paid by the Participant on or prior to the payment or other event that results in taxable income in respect of an Award. The Award Agreement shall specify the manner in which the withholding obligation shall be satisfied with respect to the particular type of Award, provided that, if shares of Common Stock are withheld from delivery upon exercise of an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right, the Fair Market Value of the shares withheld shall not exceed, as of the time the withholding occurs, the minimum amount of tax for which withholding is required.
Tax Withholding
15.7. . The adoption of this Plan and any setting aside of cash amounts or shares of Common Stock by the Corporation with which to discharge its obligations hereunder shall not be deemed to create a trust or other funded arrangement. The benefits provided under this Plan shall be a general, unsecured obligation of the Corporation payable solely from the general assets of the Corporation, and neither a Participant nor the Participant's permitted transferees or estate shall have any interest in any assets of the Corporation by virtue of this Plan, except as a general unsecured creditor of the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall have the right to implement or set aside funds in a grantor trust subject to the claims of the Corporation's creditors to discharge its obligations under the Plan.
Unfunded Plan
15.8. . The adoption of the Plan shall not affect any other stock incentive or other compensation plans in effect for the Corporation or any Subsidiary, nor shall the Plan preclude the Corporation from establishing any other forms of stock incentive or other compensation for employees of the Corporation or any Subsidiary. The amount of any compensation deemed to be received by Participant pursuant to an Award shall not constitute compensation with respect to which any other employee benefits of such Participant are determined, including, without limitation, benefits under any bonus, pension, profit sharing, life insurance or salary continuation plan, except as otherwise specifically provided by the terms of such plan.
Other Compensation and Benefit Plans
15.9. . The Plan shall be binding upon the Corporation, its successors and assigns, and the Participant, his executor, administrator and permitted transferees and beneficiaries.
Plan Binding on Successors
15.10. . Whenever used herein, nouns in the singular shall include the plural, and the masculine pronoun shall include the feminine gender. Headings of Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience and reference and constitute no part of the Plan.
Construction and Interpretation
15.11. . If any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement shall be determined to be illegal or unenforceable by any court of law in any jurisdiction, the remaining provisions hereof and thereof shall be severable and enforceable in accordance with their terms, and all provisions shall remain enforceable in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
15.12. . The validity and construction of this Plan and of the Award Agreements shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware.
Governing Law
15.13. . In order to the making of any or combination of under this Plan, the Committee may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are nationals, who are employed by the Corporation or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Corporation under an agreement with a nation or agency, as the Committee may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom.  Moreover, the Committee may approve
Non-U.S. Employees
facilitate
grant
grants
foreign
foreign
12
such supplements to, or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of, this Plan as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Corporation may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements shall include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Corporation.
15.14. .  This Plan is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with section of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent. To the extent that an Award, issuance and/or payment is subject to section of the Code, it shall be awarded and/or issued or paid in a manner that will comply with section of the Code, including proposed, temporary or final regulations or any other guidance issued by the Secretary of the Treasury and the Internal Revenue Service with respect thereto.  Any provision of this Plan that would cause an Award, issuance and/or payment to fail to satisfy section of the Code shall have no force and effect until amended to comply with Code section (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by applicable law).
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
409A
409A
409A
409A
409A
16.  EFFECTIVE DATE, TERMINATION AND AMENDMENT
16.1. . The Effective Date of the Plan shall be the date on which the Plan is approved by the Board (provided that, to the extent the Plan is not approved by the shareholders of the Corporation within 12 months after the Effective Date, any Award that at the time of grant was intended to be an Incentive Stock Option shall be a Nonqualified Stock Option).
Effective Date; Shareholder Approval
16.2. . The Plan shall terminate on the date immediately preceding the tenth anniversary of the date the Plan is adopted by the Board. The Board may, in its sole discretion and at any earlier date, terminate the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no termination of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Termination
16.3. . The Board may at any time and from time to time and in any respect, amend or modify the Plan; provided, however, that no amendment or modification of the Plan shall be effective without the consent of the Corporation's shareholders that would (i) change the class of Eligible Persons under the Plan, (ii) increase the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan or for certain types of Awards under Section 3.1 hereof, or (iii) allow the grant of SARs or Options at an exercise price below Fair Market Value, or allow the repricing of SARs or Options without shareholder approval. In addition, the Board may seek the approval of any amendment or modification by the Corporation's shareholders to the extent it deems necessary or advisable in its sole discretion for purposes of compliance with Section 162(m) or section 422 of the Code, the listing requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or for any other purpose. No amendment or modification of the Plan shall in any manner affect any Award theretofore granted without the consent of the Participant or the permitted transferee of the Award.
Amendment
IN WITNESS OF its adoption by the Board on October 24, 2006, this Plan is executed on behalf of the Corporation this 26th day of October, 2006.
 
13

Exhibit 10.2
This Severance and Consulting Agreement (the "Agreement"), which is effective as of this 24
th
 day of October 2006, is entered into by and between Dr. Ruth G. Shaw (the "Executive") and Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries and affiliates (collectively, "Duke"), with the mutual exchange of promises as consideration (collectively, the "Parties").
A.            WHEREAS, the Parties have agreed to the termination of the Executive's employment effective April 30, 2007 (the "Termination Date"); and
B.            WHEREAS, as of the Termination Date, the Executive will become entitled to severance benefits under the Key Employee Severance Agreement and Release entered into by and between the Executive and Duke Energy Corporation, a North Carolina corporation, dated August 18, 1999 (the "KESA"); and
C.            WHEREAS, Duke would like to engage the Executive to provide certain consulting services to Duke as well as any successors thereto.
D.            NOW, THEREFORE, Duke and the Executive enter into the following Agreement:
Agreement
1.             KESA.  Duke agrees to provide the Executive the severance benefits described in Section 2(c) of the KESA contingent upon her continued compliance with the post-termination obligations contained in the KESA, including but not limited to, the obligations set forth in Sections 3, 4, 5 and 16 of the KESA.
2.             Consulting Arrangement.  The Executive agrees to serve as a consultant to Duke for the period beginning on May 1, 2007 and ending on April 30, 2009 (the "Consulting Period").  The consulting services to be provided by the Executive during the Consulting Period will consist of consultation with, and advice to, the officers and managerial employees of Duke, as requested by the Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy Corporation (or his successor), on matters relating to Duke's business affairs about which the Executive has historical knowledge and experience.  When requested by Duke, the Executive will perform the consulting services at reasonable times, as determined by mutual agreement between Duke and the Executive; provided, however, that in no event will the Executive be required, pursuant to this Agreement, to provide more than (i) 80 hours of consulting services to Duke in any calendar month during the first twelve months of the Consulting Period, or (ii) 25 hours of consulting services to Duke in any calendar month during the second twelve months of the Consulting Period, without her consent.  With respect to the Consulting Period, the Executive will receive a consulting fee, subject to the continuous provision of consulting services, equal to $900,000 (i.e., Executive will earn consulting fees at the rate of $37,500 per month)
which amount will be paid to the Executive in equal monthly installments over a 36-month period, with the first such payment being made in May 2008.  All of the consulting services to be provided by the Executive will be performed as an independent contractor, and the Executive will not have any authority to act as an agent or representative of Duke, except to the extent expressly authorized in writing by Duke.  The Executive will perform her consulting services to the best of her abilities.  The Executive will be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses authorized by Duke and incurred by the Executive during the Consulting Period in connection with the provision of consulting services pursuant to this Agreement in accordance with the policies in effect from time to time for other consultants.  Nothing in this Agreement will prohibit the Executive from seeking or accepting other employment, engaging in any other consulting services, or participating in any other endeavor for profit, as she deems appropriate; provided, however, that in so doing, she does not breach any of her other obligations under this Agreement or the KESA; further, provided, however, that in the event the Executive becomes employed by another employer prior to the expiration of the Consulting Period, Duke, in its sole discretion, may terminate the consulting arrangement outlined in this Section 2.
3.             Retention Bonus Award.  In consideration for the severance benefits and consulting arrangements outlined herein, the Executive hereby waives her rights, if any, to a retention award and/or severance benefits under the Severance and Retention Agreement entered into between the Executive and Duke dated as of April 4, 2006 which agreement shall be null and void upon the effective date of this Agreement as determined in accordance with Section 6, without any further action by the parties hereto.
4.             Nondisclosure of Confidential Information.  The Executive acknowledges that the information, observations and data obtained by her during the Consulting Period concerning the business or affairs of Duke or any predecessor thereof (unless and except to the extent the foregoing become generally known to and available for use by the public other than as a result of the Executive's acts or omissions to act) (hereinafter defined as "Confidential Information") are the property of Duke and she is required to hold in a fiduciary capacity all Confidential Information obtained by her during the Consulting Period for the benefit of Duke.  The Executive's obligations under this Agreement are in addition to, and not in limitation of or preemption of, all other obligations of confidentiality which the Executive may have to Duke or its predecessors under the KESA general legal or equitable principles, and federal, state or local law.
5.             Governing Law.  This Agreement shall be interpreted, enforced and governed under the laws of the State of North Carolina, without regard to any applicable state's choice of law provisions.
6.             Effective Date.  The Parties acknowledge and agree that this Agreement shall not become effective unless and until it is approved by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Duke Energy Corporation.  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, this Agreement shall be null and void and of no force or effect in the event the Executive does not execute any waiver and release
the Executive may be required to execute in order to receive severance benefits under the KESA or timely revokes such waiver and release.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have caused this Agreement to be executed, effective as of the date first written above.
 
 


