FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20070308163632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
March 2, 2007
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On March 2, 2007, the Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Duke Energy Corporation (the "Company") took the actions described below.
Establishment of 2007 Performance Goals for Chief Executive Officer
The Committee established the performance objectives applicable to the 2007 tranche of the performance shares that were granted to Mr. Rogers on April 4, 2006.  The 2007 tranche covers 107,600 shares of the common stock of the Company and 53,800 shares of the common stock of Spectra Energy Corp.  All or a portion of the performance shares will vest as of December 31, 2007, depending on the extent to which the 2007 performance objectives are achieved.  The performance objectives are weighted 80% based on the Company's ongoing earnings per share, with threshold and target performance levels of $1.05 and $1.15, respectively, and the remaining 20% is based on achievement of individual objectives, which consist of a combination of strategic and operational measures.  The performance shares are earned in full if target performance is achieved on an aggregate basis, such that Mr. Rogers can earn a full payout of his performance shares if his performance is above target with respect to either the earnings per share or individual component and below target on the other.  Mr. Rogers cannot receive more than 107,600 shares of the common stock of the Company and 53,800 shares of the common stock of Spectra Energy Corp even if aggregate performance exceeds target.  However, the performance shares are subject to up to a 5% reduction in the event that certain predetermined safety goals are not achieved.  The performance shares will be forfeited and will cease to be outstanding to the extent the 2007 performance objectives are not achieved.  The form of performance award agreement for Mr. Rogers was attached as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K that was filed on April 6, 2006.
Establishment of 2007 Long-Term Incentive Program
The Committee established the Company's long-term incentive program for 2007 by granting phantom stock and performance share awards under the terms of the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan for Mr. Hauser and Dr. Shaw.  The form of phantom stock and performance share awards are attached as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)          
Exhibits.
10.1         Form of Phantom Stock Award Agreement
         Form of Performance Share Award Agreement
10.2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
PHANTOM STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and                 (the "Grantee").
Phantom Stock
Award Agreement
March 2, 2007,
Duke Energy Corporation
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the Phantom Stock units and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
              .  The number of Phantom Stock units and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each                    (         ).  Each Phantom Stock unit, upon becoming vested before its expiration, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent represents a right to receive cash payments equivalent to the amount of cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Section 1.
Number and Nature of Phantom Stock Units and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
.  The specified percentage of the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award, and not previously forfeited, shall vest, with such percentage considered satisfied to the extent such Phantom Stock units have previously vested, as follows:
Section 2.
             
Vesting of Phantom Stock Units
(a)           Upon Grantee remaining continuously employed by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, through the specified anniversary of the Date of Grant,
 
) anniversary of the Date of Grant during which such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary, and any such Phantom Stock units not then or previously vested shall be forfeited.
For purposes of vesting under this Section 2(a), if such employment terminates at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or the delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, Grantee shall be considered to have "retired" and such employment shall be considered to continue, with continued vesting under this Section 2(a), unless the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, in which case any such Phantom Stock units not previously vested, or vested by application of the following sentence shall be forfeited, or unless the Grantee dies, in which case the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall vest in accordance with the following sentences.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of Grantee's death or (ii) as the result of Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), all Phantom Stock units subject to this Award, which units have not previously been forfeited or vested, immediately shall become fully vested.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee or (ii) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall vest at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating from the above schedule to reflect only that portion of the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending with the third (3
rd
In the event that at a time when vesting would otherwise occur under this Section 2(a), Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the
approved personal leave of absence and before the second anniversary of the commencement of such leave of absence; unless the Committee or delegatee determines otherwise, in the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to the second anniversary of the commencement of such leave of absence, any Phantom Stock units covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).
(b)           100%, if, following the occurrence of a Change in Control and before the second anniversary of such occurrence, such employment is terminated involuntarily, and not for cause, by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee in its sole discretion, other than under circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 2(a).
.              .  In consideration of the continued vesting opportunity provided under Section 2 following the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, if Grantee is considered "retired", Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with such termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not (i) without the prior written consent of the Corporation, or its delegatee, become employed by, serve as a principal, partner, or member of the board of directors of, or in any similar capacity with, or otherwise provide service to, a competitor, to the detriment of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or (ii) violate any of Grantee's other noncompetition obligations, or any of Grantee's nonsolicitation or nondisclosure obligations, to the Corporation or any Subsidiary.  The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be limited in scope and shall be effective only to competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and management of fiber optic communications systems; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas (i) any country in the world where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least US$25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including Subsidiaries; (ii) the continent of North America; (iii) the United States of America and Canada; (iv) the United States of America; (v) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Texas, California, Massachusetts, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Colorado, Oklahoma and Louisiana; (vi) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Colorado, Ohio,
Section 3
Violation of Grantee Obligation
Kentucky, and Indiana; and (vii) any state or states with respect to which was conducted a business of the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, which business constituted a substantial portion of Grantee's employment.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including areas.  If any part of this provision is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or area, including deletion of specific words and phrases, i.e., "blue penciling", and in its modified, reduced or blue pencil form, such part shall become enforceable and shall be enforced.  Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee being retained during the Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
.  Any Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2, and, if not previously vested and paid, or deferred, or forfeited, shall expire immediately before the tenth anniversary of the Date of Grant.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time the unit of Phantom Stock with respect to which the Dividend Equivalent is in tandem (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, (ii) is forfeited, or (iii) expires.
Section 4.             
Forfeiture/Expiration
.  Payments with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall be paid in cash to the Grantee as soon as practicable following any time cash dividends are declared and paid with respect to the Common Stock on or after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes.
Section 5.
             
Dividend Equivalent Payments
.  Payment of Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the time such units become vested in accordance with Section 2 prior to their expiration but in no event later than 30 days following
Section 6.             
Payment of Phantom Stock Units
such vesting, except to the extent deferred by Grantee in accordance with such procedure as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe.  Payment shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested unit of Phantom Stock and any fractional vested unit of Phantom Stock shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Phantom Stock units became vested, or if later, payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective unit of Phantom Stock became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements.  In the event that payment, after any such reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Phantom Stock units became vested, or if later, payable.
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
Section 7.
             
No Employment Rights
.  The Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by the Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent or right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Section 8.
             
Nonalienation
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Section 9.             
Determinations
.  The validity and construction of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Delaware applicable to transactions taking place entirely within that state.
Section 10.           
Governing Law
.  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the
Section 11.
           
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, and Grantee's Consent
applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect a Phantom Stock Award properly granted to Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Section 12.           
Compliance with Law
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than                     , 2007, has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department - Phantom Stock (ST05F), Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1007, Charlotte, NC 28201-1007, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
 
 
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this           day of                                   , 2007.
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
PERFORMANCE AWARD AGREEMENT
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of March 2, 2007 (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and                  (the "Grantee").
Performance Award Agreement
Duke Energy Corporation
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the Performance Shares and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
              .  The number (at maximum performance) of Performance Shares and the number (at maximum performance) of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each                   (            ).  The number of such Performance Shares that may become vested upon determination of achievement of each Performance Goal at target, as provided in Section 2(a), is                    (     ).  Each Performance Share, upon becoming vested before its expiration, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent, after its tandem Performance Share vests, represents a right to receive a cash payment equivalent in amount to the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred.  Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Section 1.
Number and Nature of Performance Shares and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
Section 2.
             
Vesting of Performance Shares
.
(a)
  Performance Goals
 percentile, in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for such percentile ranking in the following schedule:
(i)            The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "TSR Performance Goal," which is the Corporation's Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") percentile ranking among the companies that are in the Philadelphia Utility Index as of the end of the Performance Period, with higher percentile ranking for more positive/less negative TSR, for the period beginning January 1, 2007 and ending December 31, 2009 ("Performance Period"), at, or above, the 30
th
*When such determination is of a percentile ranking between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
and such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.  For purposes of this Agreement, TSR means the change in fair market value over a specified period of time, expressed as a percentage, of an initial investment in specified common stock, with dividends reinvested, all as determined utilizing such methodology as the Committee, or its delegatee, shall approve, provided, however, that the Committee, or its delegatee, shall have the discretion to make appropriate and equitable adjustments to the TSR of any company (including the
Corporation) whose shares trade ex-dividend as of December 31, 2009, provided, however, that no such adjustment shall be permitted if it would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code.  In the event that a company becomes a member of the Philadelphia Utility Index following January 1, 2007, such company shall not be taken into account for purposes of this Agreement.
(ii)           The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "CAGR Performance Goal," which is based on the Corporation's compounded annual growth rate ("CAGR") with respect to its ongoing earnings per share ("EPS"), as calculated in accordance with , for the Performance Period at, or above, 4%, in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for CAGR in the following schedule:
Exhibit A
*When such determination is at a level between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
and such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.
(b) In the event that, prior to the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, the Performance Shares subject to this Award are thereupon forfeited, except that if such employment terminates
(i) at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or a Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or the Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, (ii) as the result of the Grantee's death, (iii) as the result of the Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), (iv) as the result of the termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Corporation or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, or (v) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business, or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating on the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary (unless such termination occurs after the end of the Performance Period, in which event the number of Performance Shares earned, if any, shall not be prorated).
In the event that Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence on the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before the second anniversary of the commencement of such leave of absence; unless the Committee or delegatee determines otherwise, in the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to the second anniversary of the commencement of such leave of absence, any Performance Shares covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof). .  Further, in the event that such determination is made and during any portion of the Performance Period the Grantee was on employer-approved, personal leave of absence, the applicable vesting percentage shall be determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to reflect only that portion of the Performance Period during which such employment continued while the Grantee was entitled to payment of salary.
(c) In the event that a Change in Control occurs before the Performance Period has ended and (i) before the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, or (ii) after such employment terminates during the Performance Period, (A) at a time when Grantee is
considered "retired", unless the Corporation, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, or (B) as the result of an event listed in items (ii)  (v) of the first sentence of Section 2(b), the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such occurrence, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating down, assuming performance at the target level for each Performance Goalon the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that has elapsed prior to the time of such occurrence (or such earlier termination of employment), and the remaining Performance Shares shall be forfeited, irrespective of any subsequent determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal.
,
.              .  In consideration of the continued vesting opportunity provided under Section 2 following the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, if, at the time of such termination of employment, Grantee is considered "retired", Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with such termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not (i) without the prior written consent of the Corporation, or its delegatee, become employed by, serve as a principal, partner, or member of the board of directors of, or in any similar capacity with, or otherwise provide service to, a competitor, to the detriment, of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or (ii) violate any of Grantee's other noncompetition obligations, or any of Grantee's nonsolicitation or nondisclosure obligations, to the Corporation or any Subsidiary.  The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be limited in scope and shall be effective only to competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and management of fiber optic communications systems; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas (i) any country in the world where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least US$25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including Subsidiaries; (ii) the continent of North America; (iii) the United States of America and Canada; (iv) the United States of America; (v) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Texas, California, Massachusetts, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Colorado, Oklahoma and Louisiana; (vi) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Colorado, Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana; and (vii) any state or states with respect to which was conducted a business of the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, which business constituted a substantial portion of
Section 3
Violation of Grantee Obligation
Grantee's employment.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including areas.  If any part of this provision is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or area, including deletion of specific words and phrases, i.e., "blue penciling", and in its modified, reduced or blue pencil form, such part shall become enforceable and shall be enforced.  Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee being retained during the Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
.  Any Performance Share subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2, and, if not previously vested and paid, or deferred, or forfeited, shall expire immediately before the tenth (10) anniversary of the Date of Grant.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time its tandem Performance Share (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, (ii) is forfeited, or (iii) expires.
Section 4.             
Forfeiture/Expiration
th
.  Payment with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award that is in tandem with a Performance Share that is vested and paid shall be paid in cash to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the vesting and payment of the Performance Share, or, if the vested Performance Share is deferred by Grantee as provided in Section 6, payment with respect to the tandem Dividend Equivalent shall likewise be deferred.  The Dividend Equivalent payment amount shall equal the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid with respect to one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes.
Section 5.
             
Dividend Equivalent Payment
.  Payment of Performance Shares subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee as soon as
Section 6.             
Payment of Performance Shares
practicable following the time such Performance Shares become vested in accordance with Section 2 prior to their expiration but in no event later than 30 days following such vesting event, except to the extent deferred by the Grantee in accordance with such procedure as the Committee, or its designee, may prescribe.  Payment shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested Performance Share, and any fractional vested Performance Share shall be rounded up to the next whole share for purposes of both vesting under Section 2 and payment under Section 6.  In the event that payment, after any reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be for less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Shares became vested.
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
Section 7.
             
No Employment Right
.  The Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or such right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Section 8.
             
Nonalienation
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Section 9.             
Determinations
.  This Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to transactions that take place entirely within that state.
Section 10.           
Governing Law
In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect an
Section 11
.            . 
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, and Grantee's Consent
Award properly granted to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Section 12.           
Compliance with Law
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than                     , 2007, has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department - Performance Award (ST05F), Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1007, Charlotte, NC 28201-1007, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Performance Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this            day of                                            , 2007.
 
 
The Committee shall calculate CAGR using the following methodology.
 - 1
CAGR = [2009 EPS / 2006 EPS (without regard to Spectra Energy Corp)]
1/3
 - 1
CAGR = (2009 EPS / $1.07)
1/3
"EPS" for this purpose shall be equal to Duke Energy's diluted ongoing earnings per share, as reported in Duke Energy's earnings releases.  Transactions that will be excluded from actual results in determining EPS include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) gains and losses on asset sales, with the exception of gains and losses associated with routine land sales (e.g. easements, rights of way) made in the normal course of business; (ii) changes in accounting principles mandated by FASB (that are not assumed in the financial plan); (iii) enterprise-wide restructuring charges; (iv) asset impairments; (v) mark-to-market impacts arising from economically hedging the output within the Commercial Power segment; (vi) discontinued operations (if discontinued operations arise during the year, the EBIT portion of the amount reported as discontinued operations will be added back to  business unit ongoing EBIT for purposes of calculating that business unit's ROCE); and (viii) significant, unanticipated non-recurring reserve accruals and reversals (e.g. legal settlements).  Such transactions must be equal to or greater than $10 million, either individually or in the aggregate for multiple transactions similar in nature, in order to qualify for exclusion.  Excluding routine asset sales made in the normal course of business, as identified above, financial plan ongoing earnings does not include any gains or losses associated with asset sales.  Transactions that will qualify for adjustments to the above EPS performance levels include, but are not limited to, the following:  (i) impacts of mark-to-market accounting arising from economically hedging the output within the Commercial Power segment; (ii) financial plan operating earnings associated with the sale of any assets outside those included in the financial plan, as any such sales occur, prospectively from the date of sale; and (iii) the impact of actual operating earnings associated with asset divestitures assumed in the financial plan caused by any differences between assumed and actual divestiture timing (no asset divestitures are assumed in the 2007 financial plan).  For the asset sale related items above, such transactions must be equal to or greater than $10 million of EBIT, either individually or in the aggregate for multiple transactions similar in nature, in order to qualify for performance level adjustment.


