FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20070508073529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 8, 2007, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today reported ongoing diluted earnings per share (EPS) of 30 cents for first quarter 2007, which excludes special items and discontinued operations, versus 21 cents in first quarter 2006. The 21 cents excludes the results of the natural gas businesses, which were spun off as Spectra Energy in January 2007, and which are now reported in Discontinued Operations. The higher ongoing results reflect the addition of the Midwest assets at Franchised Electric & Gas and Commercial Power, as well as improved results at International. These results were partially offset by a lower contribution from Crescent, and reflect the issuance of new shares as a result of the April 2006 merger with Cinergy.
The company reported first quarter 2007 diluted EPS of 28 cents, or $357 million in net income, compared to 37 cents diluted EPS in first quarter 2006, or $358 million in net income. Reported earnings for first quarter 2007 exclude the results for the natural gas businesses that were spun off as Spectra Energy. Reported earnings for first quarter 2007 include the results of the former Cinergy operations and reflect the share dilution from the Cinergy merger.
"Our first quarter as a pure-play electric company was very solid and reflects our focus on the business," said Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer James E. Rogers. "Our regulated businesses are performing well and the vast majority of our merger initiatives are either complete or on target. This helps position our business portfolio as a strong platform for delivering positive results for our shareholders. As a result, we are comfortable we will be able to achieve our 2007 employee incentive target of $1.15 per share, on an ongoing diluted basis."
Special items affecting Duke Energy's diluted EPS for the quarter include:
 
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to ongoing diluted EPS for the quarter:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
 
Franchised Electric and Gas
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (FE&G) reported first quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $574 million, compared to $359 million in the prior-year quarter. The EBIT increase over the prior year's quarter was due primarily to the addition of the former Cinergy regulated utility operations in the Midwest, favorable weather and customer growth, and proceeds from a settlement with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).
The former Cinergy operations contributed $218 million of EBIT for the quarter, net of $13 million in rate reductions related to merger approval requirements in Ohio, Indiana and Kentucky. The DOE settlement increased EBIT by $26 million and resolved a dispute with the DOE over its obligation to accept and dispose of used nuclear fuel.
Regional growth continued to add to FE&G's total customer base. Approximately 47,000 new customers were added in the Carolinas since the first quarter 2006, a 2 percent increase. Another 18,000 new customers were added in the Midwest in that same time period, a 1 percent increase.
These increases were partially offset by $38 million of merger-related rate reductions in the Carolinas, and lower bulk power marketing results driven by lower prices.
 
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported a first quarter 2007 segment EBIT loss of $9 million from continuing operations, compared to a $26 million segment EBIT loss in the prior year's quarter. These results reflect the contribution of approximately $107 million from the addition of Cinergy's non-regulated generation in the Midwest. This contribution was offset by $53 million of purchase accounting charges associated with the merger, $26 million of mark-to-market losses on economic hedges and $23 million of costs associated with our synfuel facilities (before the benefit of associated tax credits).
Commercial Power's first quarter 2007 reported results also reflect reductions in governance costs related to the gas-fired plants in the Midwest.
 
International Energy
Duke Energy International (DEI) reported a first quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of approximately $94 million, compared to $86 million in last year's first quarter. The EBIT increase was primarily due to favorable pricing and foreign exchange impacts in Brazil.
 
Crescent Resources
Duke Energy's ownership share of Crescent Resources resulted in $2 million in equity earnings for the first quarter 2007, compared with segment EBIT from continuing operations of $42 million for the first quarter of 2006. The first quarter 2007 results reflect the impact of Duke Energy's reduced ownership of Crescent from 100 percent to effectively 50 percent following the close of a joint-venture partnership with Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund on September 7, 2006. First quarter 2007 equity earnings include a deduction for interest costs of $10 million, which did not exist in the prior-year quarter's EBIT. The lower results also reflect lower developed lot and land sales.
 
 
Other
Other primarily includes costs associated with corporate governance, merger costs-to-achieve, and Duke Energy's captive insurance company, Bison Insurance Co. Limited.
Other reported a first quarter 2007 EBIT loss from continuing operations of $84 million, compared to a loss of $54 million in the prior year's quarter. The increased losses for the quarter were due primarily to a $21 million special item related to convertible debt charges associated with the spinoff of Spectra Energy.
 
Discontinued Operations
In the first quarter of 2007, Discontinued Operations had after-tax income of $8 million, compared to $155 million in the prior year's quarter. The variance is primarily due to the presentation of the first quarter 2006 results for the natural gas businesses spun off as discontinued operations.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense from continuing operations was $164 million for the first quarter 2007, compared to $103 million for the first quarter 2006. The increase was primarily due to the merger with Cinergy in April 2006.
 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for first quarter 2007 was $105 million, compared to $108 million for the first quarter 2006. The decrease was the result of a lower effective tax rate, offset by higher pre-tax income in first quarter 2007, compared to the first quarter 2006. The lower effective tax rate was due primarily to the recognition of synfuel credits and a reduction in the unitary state tax rate in 2007, primarily as a result of the spinoff of Spectra Energy.
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and nonoperating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of our ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Duke Energy's management uses ongoing diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for the impact of special items, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company. Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of ongoing diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time as the company is unable to forecast any special items for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses ongoing segment (including ongoing equity earnings for Crescent Resources) and Other EBIT as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and other performance. When used for future periods, ongoing segment and Other EBIT may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations. Ongoing segment and Other EBIT are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment and Other EBIT adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment and Other EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across all periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment or Other EBIT is reported segment or Other EBIT, which represents EBIT from continuing operations, including any special items. Due to the
 
 
forward-looking nature of any forecasted ongoing segment or Other EBIT and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time as the company is unable to forecast any special items or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations for future periods.
Duke Energy Corp., one of the largest electric power companies in the United States, supplies and delivers energy to approximately 3.9 million U.S. customers. The company has nearly 37,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity in the Midwest and the Carolinas, and natural gas distribution services in Ohio and Kentucky. In addition, Duke Energy has more than 4,000 megawatts of electric generation in Latin America, and is a joint-venture partner in a U.S. real estate company.
Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: .
http://www.duke-energy.com
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 10 a.m. ET today. The conference call can be accessed via the of Duke Energy's Web site or by dialing (800) 475-3716 in the United States or (719) 457-2728 outside the United States. The confirmation code is 9982491. Please call in five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, May 17, 2007, by dialing (888) 203-1112 with a confirmation code of 9982491. The international replay number is (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 9982491. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site. The presentation may include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. In such event, a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures will be available on our investor relations Web site at:
investors' section
investors' section
http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/publications/gaap/
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes and ice storms; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans, including the prices at which Duke Energy is able to sell assets; and regulatory or other limitations imposed as a result of a merger. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified due to discontinued operations and segment asset transfers.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Excludes Crescent discontinued operations.
C  Primarily amounts reclassified to discontinued operations due to the January 2007 spin-off of Spectra Energy, net of amounts for DENA. Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Other income and expenses, net (Other Income and Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 
 


