FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20080312164622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
          Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
On March 10, 2008, Duke Energy Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc., entered into an amendment to the $2,650,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated June 28, 2007, among Duke Energy Corporation and such subsidiaries, as Borrowers, the banks listed therein, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch and Credit Suisse, as Co-Documentation Agents. The Credit Agreement was described in a Form 8-K filed July 5, 2007. Pursuant to the amendment, the total commitments under the facility were increased to $3,200,000,000, and the borrowing sublimits for Duke Energy Ohio, Inc. and Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. were increased to $750,000,000 and $700,000,000, respectively. The amendment was entered into to increase the financial flexibility of Duke Energy and its utility subsidiaries.
The disclosure in this Item 1.01 is qualified in its entirety by the provisions of Amendment No.1 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     AMENDMENT dated as of March 10, 2008 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2007 (as heretofore amended, the "") among DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION, DUKE ENERGY CAROLINAS, LLC, DUKE ENERGY OHIO, INC., DUKE ENERGY INDIANA, INC. and DUKE ENERGY KENTUCKY, INC. (the ""), the BANKS (the "") party hereto, JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, National Association, BARCLAYS BANK PLC, BANK OF AMERICA, N.A., and CITIBANK, N.A. as Co-Syndication Agents, THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI UFJ, LTD., New York Branch, and CREDIT SUISSE as, as Co-Documentation Agents, and WACHOVIA BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent (the "").
Credit Agreement
Borrowers
Banks
Administrative Agent
     WHEREAS, the Company has requested an increase in the aggregate amount of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.17 of the Credit Agreement that the parties desire to memorialize through this Amendment; and
     WHEREAS, the parties hereto also desire to amend the Credit Agreement as set forth herein;
     NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto agree as follows:
     Section 1Unless otherwise specifically defined herein, each term used herein that is defined in the Credit Agreement has the meaning assigned to such term in the Credit Agreement. Each reference to "hereof", "hereunder", "herein" and "hereby" and each other similar reference and each reference to "this Agreement" and each other similar reference contained in the Credit Agreement shall, after this Amendment becomes effective, refer to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.
. Defined Terms; References.
     Section 2. The definition of "Maximum Sublimit" in Section 1.01 of the Credit Agreement is amended by changing the amount set forth for the Company from $1,200,000,000 to $1,100,000,000 and by changing the amount set forth for Duke Energy Indiana from $600,000,000 to $700,000,000.
. Amendment
     Section 3. With effect from and including the Amendment Effective Date, (i) pursuant to Section 2.17, the aggregate amount of the Commitments is increased by $550,000,000, (ii) each Person listed on the signature pages hereof which is not a party to the Credit Agreement (a "New Bank") shall become a Bank party to the Credit Agreement, (iii) the Commitment of each Bank shall be the amount set forth opposite the name of such Bank in the
Increase in Commitments.
 
Commitment Schedule attached hereto and (iv) the Commitment Schedule attached hereto shall replace the Commitment Schedule attached to the Credit Agreement.
     Section 4The Borrowers represent and warrant that (i) the representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in Article 4 of the Credit Agreement will be true on and as of the Amendment Effective Date and (ii) no Event of Default will have occurred and be continuing on such date.
. Representations of Borrowers.
     Section 5. Except as expressly set forth herein, the amendments contained herein shall not constitute a waiver or amendment of any term or condition of the Credit Agreement, and all such terms and conditions shall remain in full force and effect and are hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects.
Effect of Amendments.
     Section 6This Amendment shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.
. Governing Law.
     Section 7This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument.
. Counterparts.
     Section 8This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof (the ""), subject to satisfaction of the following conditions:
. Effectiveness.
Amendment Effective Date
     (a) the Administrative Agent shall have received from each of the Borrowers, each New Bank, each Bank whose Commitment is increased hereby and such other Banks (if any) as may be necessary in order that the signatories hereto comprise the Required Banks (determined before giving effect to this Amendment) a counterpart hereof signed by such party or facsimile or other written confirmation (in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent) that such party has signed a counterpart hereof; and
     (b) the Administrative Agent shall have received an opinion of the General Counsel or Assistant General Counsel of each of Duke Energy Indiana and Duke Energy Ohio dated as of the Amendment Effective Date, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent; and
     (c) the Administrative Agent shall have received evidence of corporate authorization of this Amendment on the part of Duke Energy Indiana (in form satisfactory to the Administrative Agent).
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


