FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20080205082412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
   Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
   Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 5, 2008, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended December 31, 2007. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit Index
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today reported ongoing diluted earnings per share (EPS) for 2007, which excludes special items and discontinued operations, of $1.25, compared to $0.99 in 2006.
The higher annual ongoing results reflect improved performance by the company's core businesses and a full year of results from the former Cinergy assets, compared to only 9 months in 2006. Major drivers included favorable weather and increased wholesale volumes in U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G); favorable timing of recoveries of fuel and purchased power costs in Commercial Power; and favorable pricing in Latin America for Duke Energy International (DEI). These results were offset primarily by higher operation and maintenance costs in USFE&G and Commercial Power, and lower results at Crescent Resources.
The company reported 2007 diluted EPS of $1.21 or $1,528 million in net income, substantially all from continuing operations. This compares to $1.57 of reported diluted EPS in 2006, or $1,863 million in net income, which includes $0.91 of EPS from continuing operations and $0.66 of EPS from discontinued operations (primarily the natural gas operations that were spun off in January 2007 to become Spectra Energy).
"We had a strong year. I'm extremely proud of our employees and their many accomplishments," said James E. Rogers, Duke Energy chairman, president and CEO. "We had great financial results and excellent operations and made significant progress on our legislative and regulatory initiatives."
For fourth quarter 2007, ongoing diluted EPS was $0.27, compared to $0.23 for fourth quarter 2006. The higher quarterly ongoing results reflect improved performance by all of the company's business segments.
Reported EPS for fourth quarter 2007 was $0.21, compared to $0.31 for fourth quarter 2006.
 
 
Special items affecting Duke Energy's diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to ongoing diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to ongoing diluted EPS for the annual periods:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported fourth-quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $519 million, compared to $423 million in the prior year. The EBIT increase over the previous year's quarter was primarily driven by the substantial completion of rate credits related to the Cinergy merger, decreased clean air amortization, favorable weather, retail rate increases in the Midwest, and additional long-term wholesale contracts.
These increases were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance costs related to employee incentives and increased plant maintenance, as well as a charge to write-off certain of the GridSouth costs as required by the North Carolina Utilities Commission order related to the North Carolina 2007 base rate case.
Full-year 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations for USFE&G was $2,305 million in 2007, compared to $1,811 million in 2006.
 
 
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported fourth-quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $38 million, compared to a $19 million loss in the fourth quarter 2006.
Commercial Power's improved results for the quarter were due primarily to a reduction in net purchase accounting charges associated with the Cinergy merger, favorable timing of recoveries of fuel and purchased power costs, and improved mark-to-market results from economic hedges due to increasing coal prices. The Midwest gas-fired assets continued to deliver improved results due to increased generation and higher capacity revenues.
The contribution was partially offset by higher expenses from increased plant maintenance in the quarter.
Results for the synfuel operations are now presented in discontinued operations following the wind down of those operations at the end of 2007.
Full-year 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations for Commercial Power was $278 million in 2007, compared to segment EBIT of $47 million in 2006.
 
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported fourth-quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $105 million, compared to a segment EBIT loss of $15 million in the fourth quarter 2006. DEI's improved results were driven primarily by the absence of a $100 million provision for LNG litigation from the prior year, as well as higher margins at National Methanol, partially offset by less favorable hydrology in Argentina.
Full-year 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations for DEI was $388 million in 2007, compared to segment EBIT of $163 million in 2006.
 
Crescent Resources
Crescent Resources reported fourth-quarter 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $32 million, compared to $17 million in the previous year's quarter.
The higher results for the quarter were due to increased legacy land sales and a gain on the sale of the Piedmont Town Center in Charlotte, N.C. These increased results were partially offset by impairment losses on certain residential developments.
Full-year 2007 segment EBIT from continuing operations for Crescent Resources was $61 million in 2007, compared with $532 million in 2006. The lower current year results reflect the September 2006 change from 100 percent ownership to an effective 50-50 joint venture. The 2006 results also reflect a $246 million gain on the creation of the joint venture.
 
Other
Other primarily includes costs associated with corporate governance, merger costs-to-achieve and Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
Other reported a fourth-quarter 2007 net expense from continuing operations of $83 million, compared to $182 million in the prior year's quarter. The reduction was primarily related to reserves for contract settlement negotiations.
The full-year 2007 net expense from continuing operations for Other was $277 million in 2007, compared with a $537 million net expense from continuing operations in 2006.
 
Discontinued Operations
In fourth quarter 2007, Discontinued Operations had an after-tax loss of $70 million, compared to fourth quarter 2006 after-tax income of $195 million. The variance is primarily due to the presentation of the fourth quarter 2006 results for the natural gas businesses spun off in January 2007 as discontinued operations.
Discontinued Operations had an after-tax loss of $22 million for the full year 2007, compared with after-tax income of $783 million in 2006.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense from continuing operations was $186 million for the fourth quarter 2007, compared to $163 million for the fourth quarter 2006. The increase is primarily due to higher interest expense related to DEI.
 
 
Interest expense from continuing operations was $685 million for the full year 2007, compared to $632 million for the full year 2006.
 
INCOME TAX
Income tax expense from continuing operations was $133 million for the fourth quarter 2007, compared to income tax benefit from continuing operations of $28 million for the fourth quarter 2006. The increase reflects higher pre-tax income from continuing operations in the fourth quarter 2007, as well as the effect of certain favorable income tax items recorded in the fourth quarter 2006. The tax benefit in fourth quarter 2006 was primarily due to favorable tax settlements, tax benefits related to the impairment of the investment in Bolivia, and the reversal of previously recognized taxes related to dividends on foreign operations.
Income tax expense from continuing operations was $728 million for the full year 2007, compared to $450 million for the full year 2006. Pre-tax income from continuing operations increased $748 million for the full year 2007, compared with the full year 2006. In addition, the effective tax rate for the full year 2007 was approximately 32 percent, an increase from approximately 29 percent for the full year 2006. The lower tax rate in 2006 reflects the favorable tax matters for the fourth quarter 2006 discussed above.
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and nonoperating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the minority interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Duke Energy's management uses ongoing diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations, adjusted for the impact of special items, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's ongoing performance across periods. Ongoing diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations, which includes the impact of special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of ongoing diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses ongoing segment (including ongoing equity earnings for Crescent Resources) and Other net expenses, including diluted-EPS-equivalent amounts, as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and other performance. When used for future periods, ongoing segment EBIT and Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations. Ongoing segment EBIT and Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items. Management believes that the presentation of ongoing segment EBIT and Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across all periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for ongoing segment EBIT or Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted ongoing segment EBIT or Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations for future periods.
Duke Energy, one of the largest electric power companies in the United States, supplies and delivers energy to approximately 4 million U.S. customers. The company has approximately 36,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity in the Midwest and the Carolinas, and natural gas distribution services in Ohio and Kentucky. In addition, Duke Energy has more than 4,000 megawatts of electric generation in Latin America, and is a joint-venture partner in a U.S. real estate company.
Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at:
http://www.duke-energy.com.
 
 
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 10 a.m. ET today. The conference call can be accessed via the of Duke Energy's Web site, or by dialing 877-719-9788 in the United States or 719-325-4762 outside the United States. The confirmation code is 4012588. Please call in five to 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, Feb. 15, 2008, by dialing 888-203-1112 with a confirmation code of 4012588. The international replay number is 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4012588. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
investors' section
The presentation may include certain non-GAAP financial measures as defined under SEC rules. In such event, a reconciliation of those measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures will be available on Duke Energy's relations Web site at:
investor
http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/publications/gaap-reconciliation.asp.
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "target," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; state, federal and foreign legislation and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes, droughts, ice storms and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Note: Certain prior period amounts have been reclassified due to discontinued operations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Primarily the income tax benefit related to a $28 million pre-tax charge for the impairment of Bolivia investment. The pre-tax impairment charge was reclassified to discontinued operations; however, GAAP requires
the income tax benefit to remain in continuing operations.
C  Primarily amounts reclassified to discontinued operations due to the January 2007 spin-off of Spectra Energy. Recorded in (Loss) Income From
Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Recorded in (Losses) Gains on Sales of Other Assets and Other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  $33 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) and $17 million recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of equity investments (Other Income and Expenses, net) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Primarily the income tax benefit related to a $28 million pre-tax charge for the impairment of Bolivia investment. The pre-tax impairment charge was reclassified to discontinued operations; however, GAAP requires the income tax benefit to
remain in continuing operations.
E  Primarily amounts reclassified to discontinued operations due to the January 2007 spin-off of Spectra Energy, net of amount for DENA. Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
A  Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  Recorded in Other income and expenses, net (Other Income and Expenses, net) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and ongoing)  in millions
 


