FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20081002145528.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.03.   Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
On September 30, 2008, Duke Energy Corporation and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, Duke Energy Carolinas, LLC, Duke Energy Ohio, Inc., Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. and Duke Energy Kentucky, Inc., borrowed a total of approximately $1,000,000,000 under the $3,200,000,000 Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated June 28, 2007 (the "Credit Agreement"), among Duke Energy Corporation and such subsidiaries, as Borrowers, the banks listed therein, Wachovia Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, Barclays Bank PLC, Bank of America, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, Ltd., New York Branch and Credit Suisse, as Co-Documentation Agents. Commitments under the Credit Agreement expire on June 28, 2012. Subject to the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement, funds are available for borrowing under the facility through the day prior to the expiration date. The Credit Agreement was further described in a Form 8-K filed July 5, 2007, and the amendment thereto was described in a Form 8-K filed March 12, 2008.
 
The loans are Revolving Credit Loans and bear interest at the Base Rate, as such terms are defined in the Credit Agreement. The loans are due and payable on September 30, 2009, with respect to each Borrower except Duke Energy Corporation, whose loan is due and payable on June 28, 2012. All or a portion of the loans may be prepaid in advance of the due date.
 
The borrowings were funded in the amounts listed below:
 
 
Duke Energy announced this transaction in a press release dated September 30, 2008, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on their behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy Corporation today announced it is drawing approximately $1 billion under its $3.2 billion Master Credit Agreement, which expires in June 2012.
 
"In light of the uncertain market environment, we made this proactive financial decision to increase our liquidity and cash position and to bridge our access to the debt capital markets," said David Hauser, group executive and chief financial officer. "This improves our flexibility as we continue to execute our business plans."
 
With this draw, the company expects to have approximately $2 billion of cash and cash equivalents at Sept. 30, 2008.
 
Duke Energy, one of the largest electric power companies in the United States, supplies and delivers electricity to approximately 4 million U.S. customers in its regulated jurisdictions. The company has approximately 35,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity in the Midwest and the Carolinas, and natural gas distribution services in Ohio and Kentucky. In addition, Duke Energy has more than 4,000 megawatts of electric generation in Latin America, and is a joint-venture partner in a U.S. real estate company.
 
Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
 


