FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20091210203339.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
 
On December 10, 2009, Duke Energy Corporation posted a presentation providing supplemental information regarding its Commercial Power and Duke Energy Ohio business to its website at www.duke-energy.com/investors/.  A copy of this presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Duke Energy Corporation
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Commercial Power Supplemental Information
December 2009
 
Adjusted Segment EBIT for 2008
 
Commercial Power Supplemental Information presentation dated December 2009 references 2008 adjusted segment EBIT.  Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expense are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment EBIT and reported Other net expense adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expense are reported segment EBIT and reported Other net expense, which represents segment and Other results from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Reconciliations of adjusted segment EBIT for the year-ended December 31, 2008 to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included below.
The materials for Duke Energy's
 
Forecasted Adjusted Segment EBIT for 2009
 
measure as it represents reported segment EBIT adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment (as discussed above under "Adjusted Segment EBIT for 2008"). The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted segment EBIT, adjusted total segment EBIT, and adjusted Other net expense are reported segment EBIT, reported total segment EBIT, and reported Other net expense which represent segment and Other results from continuing operations, including any special items and
The materials for Duke Energy's Commercial Power Supplemental Information presentation dated December 2009 references forecasted 2009 adjusted segment EBIT for each of the business segments.  Adjusted segment EBIT is a non-GAAP financial
 
 
the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of these non-GAAP financial measures for 2009, information to reconcile them to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related minority interest.
 
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
* Represents the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods.
 
 


