FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20090505070834.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On May 5, 2009, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1 News Release issued by Duke Energy Corporation on May 5, 2009
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today announced first quarter 2009 adjusted diluted EPS of 28 cents, compared to 35 cents for first quarter 2008. Reported diluted EPS for the first quarter 2009 was 27 cents, compared to 37 cents for the same period last year.
The quarter's results were impacted primarily by two items  lower sales to the industrial customer class due to the continuing global recession, and increased operating and maintenance expense due to significant winter storms in the quarter.
"Despite the effects of the recession and storm-related expenses, our businesses remain fundamentally strong," said James E. Rogers, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "We can't control the weather or the economy so we're focused on issues we can control  managing our costs, improving operational performance, maintaining our liquidity, and making progress on our regulatory and legislative initiatives. After the first quarter, we are on track to achieve our 2009 employee incentive target of $1.20 per share on an adjusted diluted basis. But, of course, the third quarter is usually the most significant for our company."
"With our strong balance sheet, we maintain access to the capital markets, as demonstrated by the issuance of $1.65 billion of fixed-rate debt at an average rate of 6.1 percent during the first quarter of 2009," said David L. Hauser, group executive and chief financial officer. "We also expect tax incentive provisions from the federal stimulus package to generate approximately $400 million in positive cash flow in 2009, further strengthening our liquidity."
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported first-quarter 2009 segment EBIT of $557 million, compared with $637 million in the first quarter of 2008.
Results were adversely affected by increased costs caused primarily by significant winter storms in the Midwest and Southeast, and a decline in weather-adjusted sales volumes to our industrial customers.
 
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported first-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $114 million, compared to $146 million in the first quarter 2008. Results were adversely affected by lower mark-to-market gains on economic hedges and higher operations and maintenance costs due to the timing of plant outages. These results were partially offset by increased native margins related to the implementation of the Electric Security Plan in Ohio at the beginning of 2009.
 
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported first-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $93 million, compared to $114 million in the first quarter 2008. DEI's lower results were driven primarily by lower margins due to lower commodity prices at National Methanol and unfavorable foreign exchange rates, primarily in Brazil. Partially offsetting these decreases were favorable prices and hydrology in Brazil.
 
Other
Due to a change in Duke Energy's reportable segments in 2008, Other now includes the results of Crescent, Duke Energy's real estate joint-venture. Other also includes costs associated with corporate governance, costs-to-achieve the Cinergy merger and Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
Other reported a first-quarter 2009 net expense from continuing operations of $90 million, compared to $76 million in the first quarter 2008. The increase in net expense for the quarter was due primarily to charges related to Crescent obligations for which Duke Energy is a named guarantor. Partially offsetting this increase is a decrease in governance expenses.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense from continuing operations was $184 million for the first quarter 2009, compared to $182 million for the first quarter 2008.
 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for first quarter 2009 was $179 million, compared to $222 million for the first quarter 2008. The effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 34 percent, compared to 32 percent for the same period last year. The anticipated effective tax rate for 2009 is 34 percent.
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the non-controlling interest expense related to those profits. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report
 
 
segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.
Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment.
Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses (including adjusted equity earnings for Crescent Resources) as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is the third largest electric power holding company in the United States, based on kilowatt-hour sales. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states  North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky  representing a population of approximately 11 million people. Duke Energy's commercial power and international business segments operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 10 a.m. ET Tuesday, May 5. The conference call can be accessed via the () of Duke Energy's Web site or by dialing 719-325-4762 outside the United States or 877-719-9788 in the United States. The confirmation code is 8532465. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, May 15, 2009, by calling 719-457-0820 outside the United States or 888-203-1112 in the United States, and using the code 8532465. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/
investors' section
 
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "target," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; state, federal and foreign legislation and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes, droughts, ice storms and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from customers in a timely manner; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related non-controlling interest.
A  $7 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $4 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $11 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $58 million gain recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related non-controlling interest.
A  $4 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $3 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $19 million gain recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $8 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Other income and expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)in millions
 


