FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20091030072927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 30, 2009, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1 News Release issued by Duke Energy Corporation on October 30, 2009
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today announced third quarter 2009 adjusted diluted earnings per share of 40 cents, compared to 33 cents for third quarter 2008. Reported diluted EPS for the third quarter 2009 was 8 cents, compared to 17 cents for the same period last year.
Reported results for third quarter 2009 were impacted by non-cash impairment charges of approximately $400 million, primarily related to goodwill associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. These charges have no impact on the company's liquidity position and have been excluded from adjusted diluted EPS.
In the third quarter, the company experienced lower electricity sales as a result of the economy. During the quarter, industrial sales volumes continued to show signs of stabilization and have improved approximately 11 percent from second-quarter 2009 levels. Through the third quarter of 2009, based upon adjusted diluted EPS, the company is slightly ahead of its internal plan. As a result, the company is on track to achieve the employee incentive target of $1.20, based on adjusted diluted EPS, assuming normal weather, continued cost control and solid operational performance, as well as no deterioration in the economy for the remainder of the year.
"I'm very pleased with our results through the third quarter," said Jim Rogers, Duke Energy chairman, president and CEO. "We continue to perform well in this recessionary climate, matching cost reductions with the declines we're experiencing in usage by our industrial customers. We are maintaining our commitment to operational excellence and strong credit and liquidity. Most importantly, we haven't lost focus on building our business for the long-term, modernizing our fleet and achieving constructive regulatory recovery of our capital investments."
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported third-quarter 2009 segment EBIT of $716 million, compared with $726 million in the third quarter of 2008.
 
Results were adversely affected by unfavorable weather throughout the service territory and a decline in weather-adjusted sales volumes to industrial customers compared to the third quarter of 2008. These lower results were mostly offset by reduced operating and maintenance costs, increased riders and Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) related to the company's capital expenditure program, and lower depreciation and amortization.
 
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported a third-quarter 2009 segment EBIT loss from continuing operations of $234 million, compared to a loss of $108 million in the third quarter of 2008.
Results were driven lower by non-cash impairment charges primarily related to goodwill associated with non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest. This goodwill impairment charge reflects the current estimated value of these operations, which has declined principally as a result of sustained lower power prices and demand. Absent this impairment charge, results were favorable due to prior year mark-to-market losses on economic hedges and a prior-year emission allowance impairment due to the invalidation of the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR).
Also, native margins were higher in the third quarter of 2009 primarily due to increased Electric Security Plan rates in the Midwest and timing of fuel and purchased power rider collections in 2008, net of lower volumes and milder weather. Additionally, the Midwest gas-fired assets recognized higher EBIT in 2009 as a result of additional capacity revenues in 2009 and a receivable writeoff in the prior year related to Lehman Brothers. Non-native margins increased principally as a result of gains on coal sales.
 
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported third-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $100 million, compared to $77 million in the third quarter of 2008.
Positive results were driven by lower commodity costs in Peru and favorable hydrology in Central America, partially offset by lower commodity prices at National Methanol Company and unfavorable average foreign currency exchange rates.
 
Other
Other includes costs associated with corporate governance, costs-to-achieve the Cinergy merger, Duke Energy's captive insurance company and the results of Crescent, Duke Energy's real estate joint-venture.
 
 
Other reported a third-quarter 2009 net expense from continuing operations of $65 million, compared to $195 million in the third quarter of 2008.
The decrease in net expense for the quarter was due primarily to prior year equity losses at Crescent, including $114 million in non-cash project impairments.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense from continuing operations was $190 million for the third quarter 2009, compared to $176 million for the third quarter of 2008. The increase in interest expense for the quarter was primarily due to higher debt balances offset by lower average interest rates on floating rate debt and commercial paper balances.
 
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for third quarter 2009 was $244 million, compared to $132 million for the third quarter of 2008. The effective tax rate for full-year 2009 is forecasted to be approximately 42 percent, reflecting the effect of the goodwill impairment, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. The effective tax rate excluding the impairment charge is forecasted to be approximately 35 percent.
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses (including adjusted equity earnings for Crescent Resources) as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare a segment's or Other's ongoing performance across periods. The
 
 
most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is the third largest electric power holding company in the United States, based on kilowatt-hour sales. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states  North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky  representing a population of approximately 11 million people. Duke Energy's commercial power and international business segments operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: .
www.duke-energy.com
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 11 a.m. ET Friday, Oct. 30. The conference call can be accessed via the () of Duke Energy's Web site or by dialing 719-325-4762 outside the United States or 877-719-9788 in the United States. The confirmation code is 7451703. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, Nov. 9, 2009, by calling 719-457-0820 outside the United States or 888-203-1112 in the United States, and using the code 7451703. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/
investors' section
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "target," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; state, federal and foreign legislation and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories, customer base or customer usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from customers in a timely manner; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $5 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $6 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $45 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $74 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Equity in earnings (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
E  Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $17 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $17 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $38 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $73 million gain recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Equity in earnings (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
E  Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $2 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $6 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $6 million gain recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $9 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in (Loss) Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $9 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $14 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $5 million gain recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $33 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Other income and expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  $30 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other, $2 million recorded as a reduction to fuel used in electric generation and purchased power  non-regulated, and $2 million as a reduction to Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
E  Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 


