FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20090225171842.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On February 19, 2009, the Compensation Committee ("Committee") of the Board of Directors of Duke Energy Corporation (the "Company") took the actions described below.
 
Employment Agreement with Mr. James E. Rogers
 
The Company entered into a new employment agreement with Mr. Rogers, effective February 19, 2009, which generally establishes Mr. Rogers' compensation and other terms and conditions of employment through December 31, 2013.  The new agreement supersedes Mr. Rogers' original employment agreement with the Company, which would have expired by its terms effective April 3, 2009.  Mr. Rogers will continue to serve as the President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company during the term of the agreement, except as described below.
 
If, during the term of the agreement, the Company eliminates the President position or appoints another individual to serve in such position, Mr. Rogers will cease to serve as President.  If, during the term of the agreement, the Company adopts a policy that its Chief Executive Officer should not serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors, Mr. Rogers will cease to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors.  In either of these situations, Mr. Rogers would not have "good reason" to terminate employment, which would result in certain benefits described below.
 
As with his prior agreement, under his new agreement Mr. Rogers does not receive a base salary and he is not eligible to participate in the Company's cash bonus programs.  Instead, he will be compensated through annual grants of stock options, phantom shares and performance shares, as follows:
 
An option with a value of $1,200,000 for 2009 and $1,600,000 for each of the four subsequent years, in each case vesting ratably in three equal annual installments on each January 1 following the grant.  Mr. Rogers generally may not dispose of any shares acquired upon exercise of any such options until January 1, 2014.  The option for 2009 permits Mr. Rogers to purchase up to 603,015 shares of the Company's common stock at $14.50 per share.
     
 
A phantom stock award with a value of $1,500,000 for 2009 and $2,000,000 for each of the four subsequent years, in each case vesting ratably in four equal quarterly installments.  Dividend equivalents are payable currently in cash.  The 2009 phantom share award provides for 103,448 shares of the Company's common stock.
     
 
Two performance share awards for each calendar year covered by the new agreement, (i) one based on annual performance metrics consistent with those established for the other named executive officers under the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan, with a target value of $1,500,000 ($2,850,000 at maximum performance) for 2009 and a target value of $2,000,000 ($3,800,000 at maximum performance) for each subsequent year, which maximum can be increased by safety goals applicable to other executive officers, and (ii) one based on performance over a three-year performance period based on performance metrics established for the other named executive officers under each year's long-term incentive program, with a target value of $1,800,000 ($2,700,000 at maximum performance) for 2009 and a target value of $2,400,000 ($3,600,000 at maximum performance) for each of the four subsequent years.  Dividend equivalents are accumulated and paid only if the underlying performance shares become payable.  The 2009 performance share award based on annual performance provides for 103,448 and 196,552 shares of the Company's common stock at target and maximum performance, respectively, and the 2009 performance share award based on long-term performance provides for 124,138 and 186,207 shares of the Company's common stock at target and maximum performance, respectively.
     
 
The new agreement makes no provision for cash payments upon a termination of employment, whether before or after a change in control of the Company.  The new agreement does provide for the treatment of Mr. Rogers' outstanding equity awards upon termination of employment, as follows.  If Mr. Rogers' employment terminates without cause or for good reason (each as defined in the agreement) or by reason of his retirement with the approval of the Board of Directors, then the stock options and phantom stock will continue to vest, and the performance shares will be payable (if at all) at the end of the cycle based on actual performance, determined as if his employment had not terminated.  If Mr. Rogers' employment terminates for death or disability, then the stock options and phantom stock will vest in full, and the performance shares will be payable (if at all) at the end of the cycle based on actual performance but pro-rated for actual
service.  If Mr. Rogers terminates his employment without good reason or retires without the approval of the Board of Directors, the unvested stock options, phantom stock and performance shares will expire immediately, and any previously vested options will expire after 90 days.  If Mr. Rogers' employment is terminated for cause, all awards will expire immediately.
 
If a change in control of the Company occurs and Mr. Rogers' employment is terminated within two years of the change in control, by the Company without cause or by Mr. Rogers for good reason or by reason of his retirement with the approval of the Board of Directors, then notwithstanding the preceding paragraph, the stock options will vest immediately and the phantom stock and performance shares will immediately vest and be paid (in the case of performance shares, based on the target level of performance).  If Mr. Rogers' employment terminates after the term of the new agreement but before vesting of all options and performance shares, each such award will be subject to the treatment described above, but determined as if termination had occurred during the term of the new agreement, and any termination by Mr. Rogers, other than in anticipation of a termination for cause, will be deemed a termination for good reason.
 
Mr. Rogers generally is not eligible to participate in the Company's benefit plans, but he will be permitted to participate in the Company's medical and dental plans if he pays the required premiums.  Mr. Rogers is entitled to reimbursement for an annual physical examination and reasonable fees incurred in connection with the negotiation of the new employment agreement.  Mr. Rogers can participate in the Company's charitable matching gift program and he remains entitled to benefits under legacy plans and agreements of Cinergy.  For security reasons, Mr. Rogers is required by the Company to use the Company's aircraft, whenever feasible, for his business travel.  Mr. Rogers also is permitted to use the Company's aircraft for his personal travel within North America; however, Mr. Rogers will be required to pay for the cost of personal travel on the Company's aircraft in accordance with the Company's policies, except he is not required to pay for the cost of travel to his annual physical examination or to meetings of the board of directors of other companies on whose board Mr. Rogers serves.  Mr. Rogers is responsible for any income taxes resulting from such aircraft usage.  However, to the extent Mr. Rogers incurs expenses associated with his spouse accompanying him on business travel, Mr. Rogers is entitled to reimbursement for those expenses, including payment of a tax gross-up.
 
The new agreement contains restrictive covenants related to confidentiality, noncompetition and nonsolicitation.  The noncompetition obligations survive for one year following his termination of employment, and the nonsolicitation obligations survive for two years following his termination of employment.
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the agreement, a copy of which is attached and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Certification of 2008 Performance Shares for Mr. James E. Rogers
 
The Committee certified the performance results with respect to the 2008 tranche of performance shares that were granted to Mr. Rogers on April 4, 2006.  As a result of actual performance compared to pre-established objectives, Mr. Rogers earned 82,540 shares of the Company's common stock and 41,270 shares of Spectra Energy Corp common stock.  In addition, the Committee determined that Mr. Rogers' performance share payout should be increased by 5%, consistent with the short-term incentive plan for other eligible employees, due to the fact that there were no work-related employee or contractor fatalities in 2008.  This 5% increase resulted in an additional payout of 4,127 Company shares and 2,063 Spectra Energy shares.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibits
(d)
  
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.1
 
 day of February, 2009 (the "Effective Date"), by and between James E. Rogers (the "Employee") and Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Duke Energy").
This Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of the 19
th
WHEREAS, the Employee presently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy pursuant to an employment agreement with Duke Energy effective as of April 4, 2006, as amended (the "Existing Employment Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, the Employee presently serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Duke Energy (the "Board");
 
WHEREAS, the term of the Existing Employment Agreement expires effective April 4, 2009;
 
WHEREAS, the Employee and Duke Energy wish to provide for the continued employment of the Employee on the terms and conditions set forth herein; and
 
WHEREAS, effective as of the date hereof, the Employee and Duke Energy intend that the Existing Employment Agreement shall cease to be of any force or effect, except to the extent otherwise expressly provided herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
1. . Duke Energy hereby continues to employ the Employee, and the Employee hereby agrees to continue such employment, effective as of the Effective Date, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy, represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to that subject, and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements with respect to that subject. Without limiting the foregoing sentence, effective as of the Effective Date, this Agreement supersedes in its entirety the Existing Employment Agreement, again except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
Employment
2. .
Position and Duties
 
(a) . Subject to Section 2(e) below, the Employee shall be employed by Duke Energy as President and Chief Executive Officer in accordance with Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the by-laws of Duke Energy as in effect at the Effective Date, as amended, and subject to Section 2(e) below the Employee shall continue to serve as Chairman of the Board. The Employee shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of Duke Energy and shall perform all duties incidental to such positions which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required by the Board. The Employee shall report directly to the Board. For administrative purposes, Duke Energy may designate the Employee as being employed by one or more of its subsidiaries.
Duties
 
(b) . While employed by Duke Energy, the Employee shall devote his full time and attention to Duke Energy and its subsidiaries and shall not be employed by any other person or entity. Subject to Section 9, the Employee may reasonably participate as a member in community, civic, or similar organizations and may pursue personal investments, so long as such activities do not interfere with the performance of the Employee's responsibilities as an employee in accordance with this Agreement, provided that the Employee may serve on corporate boards (other than the Board) with the approval of the Board, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, and provided further that the Employee's service described on Exhibit A hereto is hereby approved as of the Effective Date.
Engaging in Other Employment
 
(c) . The Employee shall act at all times in compliance with the policies, rules and decisions adopted from time to time by Duke Energy, its Board and any employing subsidiaries and perform all the duties and obligations required of him by this Agreement in a loyal and conscientious manner.
Loyal and Conscientious Performance
 
(d) . The Employee's principal office shall be at the principal executive offices of Duke Energy in Charlotte, North Carolina. Except for required business travel to an extent substantially consistent with the business travel obligations of other senior Duke Energy executives, the Employee will not be required to relocate to a new principal place of business that is more than fifty (50) miles from such location.
Location
 
(e) .  The Employee shall continue to serve as President of Duke Energy during the term of this Agreement (as set forth in Section 3 hereof) unless, at any time during such term, Duke Energy either eliminates such position or appoints another individual to serve in such position, in which case the Employee shall cease to serve as President upon the effective date of such action by Duke Energy.  During the term of this Agreement, Duke Energy shall use its best efforts to cause the Employee to be reelected as Chairman of the Board, unless, at any time during such term, Duke Energy adopts a policy that its Chief Executive Officer should not serve as Chairman of the Board, in which case the Employee shall cease to serve as Chairman of the Board upon the effective date of such action by Duke Energy.
Chairman and President Roles
 
3. . The term of the Employee's employment pursuant to this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on December 31, 2013, unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Term of Employment
 
4. . The Employee shall not be paid a base salary, nor shall the Employee participate in the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Short-Term
Salary; Bonus; Existing Compensation Awards
Incentive Plan (as it may be amended, or any successor thereto) or any other annual cash bonus program. The Employee's compensation will be primarily through the equity awards specified in Section 5 below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the equity incentive compensation grants awarded under the Existing Employment Agreement, together with any outstanding awards that survived the adoption of the Existing Employment Agreement, shall remain outstanding (and be paid, as the case may be) in accordance with their existing terms.
 
5. . Subject to the following sentence, for 2009 and each other calendar year commencing during the term of this Agreement (an "Award Year"), Duke Energy will cause equity awards (the "LTIP Awards") to be made to the Employee as provided in this Section 5, to be evidenced by award agreements (each, an "Award Agreement") with additional customary terms not otherwise inconsistent with the terms of this Section 5, unless otherwise required to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code" and such Section 409A, together with the applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder, "Section 409A), or an applicable exception thereto. The LTIP Awards with respect to each Award Year shall be made effective as of the date equity incentive compensation awards are generally granted to other senior employees of Duke Energy under its long-term incentive program but in any event on or before March 31 of such year (the "Grant Date"), provided that no LTIP Awards shall be made for any Award Year if the Employee's employment has terminated on or before the Grant Date.
Equity Awards
 
(a) . Duke Energy will grant to the Employee a nonqualified stock option to purchase Duke Energy common stock in respect of each Award Year (each an "Option"), which Option shall have a value (as determined pursuant to the final sentence of this Section 5(a)) equal to $1,200,000 for 2009 and $1,600,000 for each other Award Year. The exercise price of each Option will be the closing price of Duke Energy common stock on the Grant Date. The normal expiration date of each Option will be the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date. The Options will not be vested at the respective Grant Date, but, except as otherwise provided herein, the Options will become ratably vested and exercisable on the three successive anniversaries of the commencement of the Award Year in respect of which it is granted and otherwise shall be granted on terms and conditions reasonably determined by the Compensation Committee. Except as otherwise provided herein or as may be permitted in an award agreement memorializing an Option, the Employee may not dispose of any shares of Duke Energy common stock acquired upon the exercise of an Option until the earlier of January 1, 2014, or the termination of the Employee's employment with Duke Energy. Any required tax withholdings in respect of Options shall be satisfied by withholding from delivery upon exercise a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a fair market value as of the date of required withholding equal to the minimum tax withholding obligation unless Duke Energy in its discretion permits the Employee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to Duke Energy.  The number of shares of Duke Energy common stock subject to each Option shall be determined pursuant to a Black-Scholes option pricing model incorporating the same assumptions used for determining the number of stock options granted as of the Grant Date to other senior executives of Duke Energy (or, if there are no such grants, as reasonably determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion).
Options
 
(b) . Effective as of the Grant Date for each Award Year, Duke Energy will grant to the Employee an award of phantom stock units in respect of the Award Year (each a "Phantom Stock Unit") with respect to a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a
Phantom Stock
value (determined pursuant to the same methodology used for such purpose in respect of stock incentive grants made as of the Grant Date to other senior executives of Duke Energy or, if there are no such grants, as reasonably determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion) equal to $1,500,000 for 2009 and $2,000,000 for each other Award Year.
 
(i) Except as otherwise provided herein, twenty-five percent (25%) of the Phantom Stock Units will vest quarterly commencing with the end of the first quarter of the applicable Award Year.
 
(ii) Vested Phantom Stock Units will be paid to the Employee in the form of shares of Duke Energy common stock (with each Phantom Stock Unit corresponding to one share of Duke Energy common stock).  Subject to paragraph (iv) below, payment in respect of vested Phantom Stock Units shall be made after the Phantom Stock Unit vests, as provided in the agreement memorializing the Phantom Stock Units, all in accordance with Section 409A.
 
(iii) Duke Energy shall pay to the Employee, within 60 days after each date on which a cash dividend is paid in respect of Duke Energy Common Stock, an amount equal to the dividend that would have been paid to the Employee in respect of each then outstanding unvested Phantom Stock Unit as if such Phantom Stock Unit constituted an actual outstanding share of Duke Energy common stock.
 
(iv) The Employee at his election may defer, under the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Savings Plan ("ESP"), delivery of shares of Duke Energy common stock in respect of vested Phantom Stock Units by making an election in accordance with procedures established by Duke Energy from time to time under the ESP.
 
(v) Any required income tax withholdings in respect of dividend equivalents attributable to Phantom Stock Units shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount and, in the case of Phantom Stock Units, by withholding from delivery a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a fair market value as of the date of required withholding equal to the minimum tax withholding obligation, in each case unless Duke Energy in its discretion requires the Employee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to Duke Energy.  The employee portion of any local income tax or employment tax (i.e., FICA) withholding required upon vesting of Phantom Stock Units shall be satisfied by withholding from delivery a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a fair market value as of the date of required withholding equal to the minimum tax withholding obligation or, in the case of shares whose delivery is deferred under the terms of the ESP, by crediting under the ESP a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock that is reduced by such number of shares, in each case unless Duke Energy in its discretion requires the Employee to satisfy such employment tax obligation by other payment to Duke Energy.
 
(c) . Effective as of the Grant Date for each Award Year, Duke Energy will grant to the Employee two performance share awards in respect of the Award Year (each a "Performance Share Award") with respect to a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock as described below.  Each performance share represents the right to receive, conditioned upon vesting, one share of Duke Energy common stock.  The Performance Share Awards shall consist of an "Annual PSA" as described in paragraph (i) below and a "Long-Term
Performance Shares
PSA" described in paragraph (ii) below.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 10 hereof, vesting of the Performance Share Awards is contingent upon the Employee's continued employment with Duke Energy through the end of the applicable performance period described below.
 
(i) Duke Energy will grant to the Employee an Annual PSA in respect of each Award Year with respect to a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a value (determined pursuant to the same methodology used for such purpose in respect of stock incentive grants made as of the Grant Date to other senior executives of Duke Energy or, if there are no such grants, as reasonably determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion) equal, at target, to $1,500,000 for 2009 and $2,000,000 for each other Award Year and equal, at maximum, to $2,850,000 for 2009 and $3,800,000 for each other Award Year.  The Compensation Committee and/or other appropriate committee of the Board shall establish performance goals (which shall be consistent with the short-term incentive performance goals established for other senior executive officers of Duke Energy in respect of such Award Year) for the Employee in respect of the Annual PSA based upon performance in respect of the Award Year, and, subject to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, the Annual PSA will vest only if and to the extent such goals are achieved (provided that vesting can occur at less than the target levels (but at not more than the maximum levels, except that such maximum levels may be increased by safety goals that are applicable generally to other executive officers) described in the preceding sentence as determined by the Compensation Committee and vesting shall be interpolated for performance above the threshold vesting level and below the maximum level described in the preceding sentence).
 
(ii) Duke Energy will grant to the Employee a Long-Term PSA in respect of each Award Year with respect to a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a value (determined pursuant to the same methodology used for such purpose in respect of stock incentive grants made as of the Grant Date to other senior executives of Duke Energy or, if there are no such grants, as reasonably determined by the Compensation Committee in its discretion) equal, at target, to $1,800,000 for 2009 and $2,400,000 for each other Award Year and equal, at maximum, to $2,700,000 for 2009 and $3,600,000 for each other Award Year.  The Compensation Committee and/or other appropriate committee of the Board shall establish performance goals (which shall be consistent with the long-term incentive corporate performance goals established for other senior executive officers of Duke Energy in respect of such Award Year) for the Employee in respect of the Long-Term PSA based upon performance in respect of the three-year period beginning with the commencement of the respective Award Year, and, subject to the provisions of Section 10 hereof, the Long-Term PSA will vest only if and to the extent such goals are achieved (provided that vesting can occur at less than the target levels (but at not more than the maximum levels) described in the preceding sentence as determined by the Compensation Committee and vesting shall be interpolated for performance above the threshold vesting level and below the maximum level described in the preceding sentence).
 
(iii) Vesting of Performance Share Awards will occur only once the Compensation Committee determines that the performance goals for the respective performance period have been met (provided that the determination of whether the performance goals in respect of any performance period have been met shall be made not later than the first March 15
following the end of the performance period). To the extent the performance goals are not met, the Performance Share Award will be forfeited and will cease to be outstanding.
 
(iv) Vested Performance Share Awards will be paid to the Employee in the form of shares of Duke Energy common stock (with each Performance Share Award corresponding to one share of Duke Energy common stock) after the Performance Share Awards vest, as provided in the agreement memorializing the Performance Share Awards, all in accordance with Section 409A.
 
(v) Subject to paragraph (vi) below, Duke Energy shall pay to the Employee, as of the date of payment of each respective vested Performance Share Award, an amount equal to the dividends that would have been payable in respect of such vested Performance Share Award during the performance period applicable to such Performance Share Award as if such vested Performance Share Award constituted an actual outstanding share of Duke Energy Common Stock during such performance period.
 
(vi) The Employee at his election may defer, under the ESP, delivery of shares of Duke Energy common stock in respect of vested Performance Share Awards by making an election in accordance with procedures established by Duke Energy from time to time under the ESP.
 
(vii) Any required income tax withholdings shall be satisfied, in the case of dividend equivalents attributable to Performance Share Awards, by reducing the payment in respect of the required withholding amount and, in the case of Performance Share Awards, by withholding from delivery a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a fair market value as of the date of required withholding equal to the minimum tax withholding obligation, in each case unless Duke Energy in its discretion requires the Employee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to Duke Energy.  The employee portion of any local income tax or employment tax (i.e., FICA) withholding required upon vesting of Performance Share Awards shall be satisfied by withholding from delivery a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock with a fair market value as of the date of required withholding equal to the minimum tax withholding obligation or, in the case of shares whose delivery is deferred under the terms of the ESP, by crediting under the ESP a number of shares of Duke Energy common stock that is reduced by such number of shares, in each case unless Duke Energy in its discretion requires the Employee to satisfy such employment tax obligation by other payment to Duke Energy.
 
(d) . The number of shares of Duke Energy common stock to be granted or delivered under the LTIP Awards shall not exceed those that may be granted in accordance with the individual share award limits applicable under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan or any other applicable plan.  If the number of shares of Duke Energy common stock to be granted or delivered under LTIP Awards otherwise would exceed such limits for any reason, the number of shares to be granted or delivered shall be adjusted by the Compensation Committee in its discretion to reflect appropriate compensation in light of such decline.
Shareholder Approved Share Limits
 
6. . The Employee and his eligible dependents shall also be entitled to participate in Duke Energy's or its affiliates' medical and dental health care plans to the extent
Fringe Benefits
such plans are available generally to other similarly situated senior executives of Duke Energy and their eligible dependents (provided that the employee-paid portion of any premium contributions required of the Employee shall be made in any event on a post-tax rather than a pre-tax basis). The Employee shall also be entitled to, at the Employee's election on an annual basis, either participation in Duke Energy's Executive Physicals Program or an annual physical to be performed at the Mayo Clinic by a physician of the Employee's choosing. Except for the foregoing, and except as expressly set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Employee will not be entitled to any other retirement, health, or welfare benefits, or to participation in, or the accrual of benefits under, any other retirement, health, or welfare benefit plan, practice, policy, or program of Duke Energy or any of its affiliates. Except as specifically set forth in this Agreement and except for participation in Duke Energy's charitable matching gifts program, the Employee shall not be entitled to any perquisite or fringe benefit, such as company automobiles, automobile allowances, and club memberships. The Employee shall be reimbursed for ordinary and reasonable expenses specifically including but not limited to those associated with entertainment and travel in accordance with Duke Energy policies and procedures. To the extent the Employee incurs ordinary and reasonable expenses associated with his spouse accompanying him on business travel, and/or to the extent such travel is treated by the taxing authorities as a taxable personal benefit to the Employee or his spouse, Duke Energy will reimburse the Employee for those expenses and will also pay to the Employee a tax gross-up payment in an amount sufficient to hold him harmless from any federal, state and local income and employment taxes due in respect of such taxable personal benefit and related gross-up payment. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 6 to the contrary, Duke Energy acknowledges that the Employee has previously been employed by Cinergy Corp. or its predecessor or affiliated entities, and by virtue of such previous employment he is entitled to benefits under various plans and agreements of Cinergy or its affiliates. Duke Energy and the Employee agree that the Employee's rights to such benefits will be unaffected  neither enhanced nor diminished  as a result of his employment by Duke Energy or its affiliates pursuant to this Agreement.
 
7. . Duke Energy desires to provide for the security of the Employee during his travels, and accordingly, whenever feasible, Duke Energy will require the Employee to use Duke Energy aircraft for his business travel. The Employee will also be permitted to use Duke Energy aircraft for his personal travel within North America pursuant to Duke Energy's standard policies as in effect from time to time and subject to availability in light of the use of Duke Energy aircraft for other Duke Energy business. The Employee shall reimburse Duke Energy for the cost of any such personal travel in accordance with Duke Energy's standard rates and reimbursement policies as in effect from time to time, provided that no reimbursement shall be required in respect of (i) travel within the contiguous 48 United States to an annual physical as provided in Section 6 hereof or (ii) travel to meetings of the board of directors of other companies on whose board the Employee serves (further provided that, to the extent any such other company does or would reimburse the Employee for the cost of such travel, the Employee shall pay to Duke Energy within thirty (30) days of the date the reimbursement is (or would be) made the greater of the amount that is (or would be) reimbursed).  To the extent that the provision of aircraft usage is treated by the taxing authorities as a taxable personal benefit to the Employee, the Employee will be responsible for the payment of any taxes on such income, including making payments to Duke Energy to fund withholding obligations as described in Section 8 hereof.
Use of Duke Energy Aircraft
8. . Duke Energy may effect withholdings, from the payments due to the Employee, for the payment of taxes and other lawful withholdings or required employee contributions, in accordance with applicable law. If circumstances arise in which such withholding or contributions are required on account of any compensation or benefits (including, without limitation, upon the payment or provision of any compensation or benefits pursuant to Sections 6 and 7), at a time when there are not cash payments being made to the Employee from which such withholding obligations can be satisfied, the Employee will deliver to Duke Energy amounts sufficient to fund such withholding or contribution obligations.
Withholding
 
9. .
Confidentiality and Privileged Information; Noncompete/Nonsolicit
 
(a) .
Confidentiality
 
(i) The Employee shall not, at any time, use (other than in the ordinary course of and for the purpose of fulfilling his duties as an employee of Duke Energy), divulge or otherwise disclose, directly or indirectly, any confidential and proprietary information (including without limitation any customer or prospect list, supplier list, acquisition or merger target, business plan or strategy, data, records, financial information or other trade secrets) concerning the business, policies or operations of Duke Energy or its affiliates that the Employee may have learned or become aware of at any time on or prior to the date hereof or during the term of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy.
 
(ii) The Employee further acknowledges and agrees that all "Company Materials," which include, but are not limited to, computers, computer software, computer disks, tapes, printouts, source, HTML and other code, flowcharts, schematics, designs, graphics, drawings, photographs, charts, graphs, notebooks, customer lists, sound recordings, other tangible or intangible manifestation of content, and all other documents whether printed, typewritten, handwritten, electronic, or stored on computer disks, tapes, hard drives, or any other tangible medium, as well as samples, prototypes, models, products and the like, shall be the exclusive property of Duke Energy and, upon termination of the Employee's employment with Duke Energy (or, in the event that the Employee continues as a director of Duke Energy, upon his ceasing to be a director of Duke Energy), or upon the request of Duke Energy, all Company Materials, including all copies thereof, as well as all other property of Duke Energy then in the Employee's possession or control, shall be returned to Duke Energy. For purposes of this Section 9(a), "Company Materials" shall include all such materials of Duke Energy's subsidiaries.
 
(iii) The Employee acknowledges that the Company Materials may contain information that is confidential and subject to the attorney-client privilege of Duke Energy or its subsidiaries or otherwise protected by attorney work product immunity. Except as required by law, the Employee agrees not to disclose to any person (other than in-house or outside counsel for Duke Energy and its subsidiaries) the content or substance of any conversations or discussions that the Employee may have or may have had at any time, whether during his employment hereunder or otherwise. In addition, the Employee agrees that he will, if and to the extent directed by the general counsel of Duke Energy, cooperate fully with in-house or outside counsel for Duke Energy and its subsidiaries in connection with any investigation, litigation or other matter in which such counsel represents Duke Energy or its subsidiaries and acknowledges
that his communications with such counsel will be subject to Duke Energy's or its subsidiaries' attorney-client privilege.
 
(b) .
Noncompete/Nonsolicit
 
(i) During the Restricted Period (as defined below), the Employee agrees that he shall not, without Duke Energy's prior written consent, for any reason, directly or indirectly, either as principal, agent, manager, employee, partner, shareholder, director, officer, consultant or otherwise (A) become engaged or involved, in a manner that relates to or is similar in nature to those duties performed by the Employee at any time during his employment with Duke Energy, in any business (other than as a less-than three percent (3%) equity owner of any corporation traded on any national, international or regional stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market) that competes with Duke Energy or any of its affiliates in the business of production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and management of fiber optic communications systems; development and operation of power generation facilities, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which Duke Energy, including affiliates, is engaged at the termination of the Employee's continuous employment with Duke Energy, including affiliates; or (B) induce or attempt to induce any customer, client, supplier, employee, agent or independent contractor of Duke Energy or any of its affiliates to reduce, terminate, restrict or otherwise alter its business relationship with Duke Energy or its affiliates. The provisions of this Section 9(b)(i) shall be effective only within any state or country with respect to which was conducted a business of Duke Energy during any part of the Employee's employment.  The parties intend the above geographical areas to be completely severable and independent, and any invalidity or unenforceability of this Agreement with respect to any one area shall not render this Agreement unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other areas.
 
(ii) For purposes of this Section 9(b), "Restricted Period" shall mean the period of the Employee's employment during the term of this Agreement and, in the case of Section 9(b)(i)(A), the twelve (12) month period following termination of employment and, in the case of Section 9(b)(i)(B), the twenty-four (24) month period following termination of employment.
 
(c) . The Employee agrees that, in the event he violates the provisions of this Section 9, (i) he will forfeit and not be entitled to any further payments in accordance with Section 10(b)(i) hereof, (ii) any Options then outstanding shall expire immediately (provided that any then outstanding options to purchase Duke Energy common stock granted before the Effective Date shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms) and (iii) if such violation is after the termination of his employment, he will be obligated to repay to Duke Energy the sum of (x) any amounts, other than pursuant to Options, paid (determined as of the date of payment) after the termination of employment pursuant to Section 10(b), (d) or (e) hereof and (y) the amount of any gains realized by the Employee upon the exercise of Options (measured by the difference between the aggregate fair market value on the date of exercise of shares underlying the Option and the aggregate exercise price of the Option) within the one-year period prior to the first date of the violation, with such sum reduced by any amount previously repaid pursuant to this Section 9(c).  Such amount shall be paid to Duke Energy in cash in a
Forfeiture and Repayments
single sum within ten (10) business days after the first date of the violation, whether or not Duke Energy has knowledge of the violation or has made a demand for payment. Any such payment made following such date shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime lending rate of Citibank, N.A. (as periodically set) plus 1%.
 
(d) .  The Employee acknowledges that the restrictions set forth in this Section 9 are reasonable and necessary to protect Duke Energy's business and goodwill, and that the obligations under this Section 9 shall survive any termination of his employment. The Employee acknowledges that if any of these restrictions or obligations are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable or overly broad or otherwise unenforceable, he and Duke Energy agree that the restrictions or obligations shall be modified by the court so as to be reasonable and enforceable and if so modified shall be fully enforced.
Scope of Restrictions
 
(e) . The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the compensation and benefits provided in this Agreement constitute adequate and sufficient consideration for the covenants made by the Employee in this Section 9. As further consideration for the covenants made by the Employee in this Section 9, Duke Energy has provided and will provide the Employee certain proprietary and other confidential information about Duke Energy, including, but not limited to, business plans and strategies, budgets and budgetary projections, income and earnings projections and statements, cost analyses and assessments, and/or business assessments of legal and regulatory issues.
Consideration; Survival
 
10. .
Termination
 
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Employee's employment may be terminated prior to the end of the term specified in Section 3 as follows:
In General
 
(i) by the Employee, by resigning, with 90 days' notice;
 
(ii) automatically, upon the death of the Employee;
 
(iii) by Duke Energy upon 90 days' notice.
 
Upon any termination, the Employee will be entitled to compensation, if any, accrued or payable as of the date of termination.
 
(b) .  Subject to Section 10(c) hereof:
Certain Terminations
 
(i) If the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy without "Cause" or by the Employee with "Good Reason" (as those terms are defined in Exhibit B hereto) or by reason of the retirement of the Employee with the approval of the Board, the Employee shall be entitled to certain special severance payments and benefits (in addition to the provision made in Section 10(a), as applicable), as follows:
 
(A) Each Option and Phantom Stock Unit outstanding at the time of termination (to the extent then not already vested) shall continue to vest as if the Employee's employment had not terminated, and all vested Options (including those that vest pursuant to the
operation of this subsection (b)(i)(A)) will remain exercisable for the full duration of their ten-year term.
 
(B) Each Performance Share Award outstanding at the time of termination shall remain outstanding and shall be payable (if at all) as determined in accordance with its terms without regard to the termination of employment under this subsection (b)(i).
 
(ii) If the Employee's employment is terminated for death or disability due to physical or mental illness or injury that precludes the Employee from performing any job for which he is qualified and able to perform based upon his education, training or experience, (A) all outstanding and unvested Options and Phantom Stock Units will vest immediately, (B) all outstanding and vested Options (including those that vest pursuant to the operation of this subsection (b)(ii)) will remain exercisable for the full duration of their ten-year term, and (C) each Performance Share Award outstanding at the time of termination shall remain outstanding and shall be payable (if at all) as determined in accordance with its terms without regard to the termination of employment under this subsection (b)(ii), provided that the amount payable shall be such proportion of the amount otherwise payable that the number of days elapsed at the time of termination (inclusive) in the vesting period not yet concluded at the time of termination bears to the total number of days in the vesting period.
 
(iii) If the Employee's employment is terminated by the Employee other than with Good Reason and other than by reason of retirement with the approval of the Board, all unvested LTIP Awards shall expire immediately, and all outstanding Options that are then vested will remain exercisable for a period of 90 days following termination, at which time they will expire.
 
(iv) If the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy for Cause, all unvested LTIP Awards shall expire immediately and all vested Options shall expire immediately, provided that any then outstanding options to purchase Duke Energy common stock granted before the Effective Date shall remain in effect in accordance with their terms.
 
(c) . The compensation and benefits to be provided under Sections 10(b)(i) and 10(b)(ii) hereof shall be provided only if the Employee (or, in the case of Section 10(b)(ii), the Employee's beneficiary or personal representative, as the case may be) timely executes and does not timely revoke a release of claims substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C.  Such release must be signed by the Employee, and become effective and irrevocable in accordance with its terms, within 52 days after the date of the Employee's termination of employment (the "Release Deadline").  The compensation and benefits to be provided under Sections 10(b)(i) and 10(b)(ii) hereof shall be paid or provided (as applicable) in a single lump sum within 30 days after the Release Deadline.
Release Requirement
 
(d) . If the Employee's employment is terminated within two years following a Change in Control of Duke Energy (as defined in the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan as in effect on the date hereof) by Duke Energy without Cause, by the Employee with Good Reason or by reason of the retirement of the Employee with the approval of the Board, then notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10(b)(i) hereof, (i) all outstanding and unvested LTIP Awards will immediately vest and be paid (in the case of Performance Share Awards, based on the target level of performance), provided
Termination following Change in Control
that Performance Shares Awards shall be payable (based on the target level of performance) at the time payment otherwise would have been made if the Change in Control does not constitute a change in the ownership or effective control of Duke Energy or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of Duke Energy within the meaning of Section 409A, and (ii) all vested Options (including those that vest pursuant to the operation of this subsection (d)) will remain exercisable for the full duration of their ten-year term.
 
(e) . If the Employee's employment terminates after the term of this Agreement but before vesting of the Options awarded for 2012 and 2013 or settlement of the Long-Term PSAs awarded for 2012 and 2013, each such Option and Long-Term PSA shall be subject to treatment in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 10 as if such termination had occurred during the term of this Agreement, provided that any termination by the Employee (other than a termination in anticipation of a termination by Duke Energy for Cause) shall be deemed to be a termination for Good Reason.
Termination after 2013
 
(f) . Duke Energy will reimburse the Employee for all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Employee during his lifetime (i) in successfully disputing pursuant to Section 17 a termination which is ultimately determined to constitute a termination of employment entitling him to benefits pursuant to this Section 10 or (ii) in reasonably disputing pursuant to Section 17 whether or not Duke Energy has terminated his employment for Cause. Payment will be made within twenty (20) business days after delivery of the Employee's written request for payment accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as Duke Energy reasonably may require, provided that the Employee shall request reimbursement not later than eleven (11) months after which the underlying expense is incurred and any such payment shall be made not later than the last day of the year following the year in which the underlying expense was incurred.
Certain Payment Disputes
 
11. othing herein shall be construed as adversely affecting the Employee's right to receive compensation and benefits which have been awarded to him prior to the date hereof, and such compensation and benefits shall not be taken into account by Duke Energy in determining the Employee's right to compensation and benefits awarded by Duke Energy hereunder. For the avoidance of doubt, Exhibit D hereto sets forth a list of key legacy benefits to which Employee is entitled (and such list of benefits shall be deemed to include any successors thereto).
Certain Legacy Compensation and Benefits
. N
 
12. .
Administration
 
(a) . The Employee shall designate a person or persons ("Beneficiary") to receive benefits hereunder following the death of the Employee by submitting to the Compensation Committee a designation of Beneficiary in the form required by the Compensation Committee. In the absence of a valid designation form, all such benefits shall be paid to the legal representative of the Employee's estate. If Duke Energy has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments hereunder, Duke Energy shall have the right to withhold such payments until the matter is finally determined.
Designation of Beneficiary
 
(b) . No right or benefit under this Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge such rights or benefits shall be void.
No Assignment
 
13. . Any notice to be given hereunder by either party to the other must be in writing and be effectuated either by personal delivery in writing or by mail, registered or certified, postage prepaid, with return receipt requested. Mailed notices shall be addressed to the parties at the following addresses:
Notice
 
If to Duke Energy or any Duke Energy affiliate:
 
Chairman, Compensation Committee
Duke Energy Corporation
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
 
Mr. Marc E. Manly
cc:
                                
Group Executive and Chief Legal Officer
Duke Energy Corporation
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
 
If to the Employee:
 
At the most recent contact information on file in the payroll records of Duke Energy
 
14. . The waiver by any party to a breach of any provision in this Agreement cannot operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by a party.
Waiver of Breach
 
15. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision in this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if the invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted.
Severability
 
16. . No modifications or amendments of the terms and conditions herein shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the parties or their respective duly authorized agents.
Amendment
 
17. . The parties agree that any dispute, claim, or controversy based on common law, equity, or any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation (other than workers' compensation claims) arising out of or relating in any way to the Employee's employment, the terms, benefits, and conditions of employment, or concerning this Agreement or its termination and any resulting termination of employment, including whether such a dispute is arbitrable, shall be settled by arbitration. This agreement to arbitrate includes but is not limited to all claims for any form of illegal discrimination, improper or unfair treatment or dismissal, and all tort claims. The Employee will still have a right to file a discrimination charge with a federal or state agency, but the final resolution of any discrimination claim will be submitted to arbitration instead of a court or jury. The arbitration
Governing Law and Forum Selection
proceeding will be conducted under the employment dispute resolution arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect at the time a demand for arbitration under the rules is made, and such proceeding will be adjudicated in Charlotte, North Carolina in accordance with the laws of the state of North Carolina, without regard to any applicable state's choice of law provisions. The decision of the arbitrator(s), including determination of the amount of any damages suffered, will be exclusive, final, and binding on all parties, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Each party will bear its own expenses in the arbitration for arbitrators' fees and attorneys' fees, for its witnesses, and for other expenses of presenting its case. Other arbitration costs, including administrative fees and fees for records or transcripts, will be borne equally by the parties. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 17 to the contrary, if the Employee prevails with respect to any dispute submitted to arbitration under this Section 17, Duke Energy will reimburse or pay all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of the dispute.
 
18. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their permitted successors, assigns, legal representatives and heirs, but neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable by the Employee. Duke Energy will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of Duke Energy to assume expressly and agree in writing to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Duke Energy would be required to perform it if no succession had taken place. Upon the Employee's termination of employment within ninety (90) days following Duke Energy's failure to obtain such an assumption and agreement prior to the effective date of a succession, the Employee shall be entitled to compensation from Duke Energy in the same amount and on the same terms as if the Employee's employment were to terminate pursuant to Section 10(b)(i) hereof.
Successors and Assigns
 
19. . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Duke Energy's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations under this Agreement will not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other claim, right, or action that Duke Energy may have against the Employee or others. In no event will the Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts (including amounts for damages for breach) payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement and those amounts will not be reduced simply because the Employee obtains other employment.
Full Settlement; Mitigation
 
20. .  Duke Energy shall promptly reimburse the Employee for reasonable attorney's and compensation consultant's fees incurred by the Employee in the negotiation and documentation of this Agreement upon receipt of supporting documentation reasonably satisfactory to Duke Energy. Payment will be made within five (5) business days after delivery of the Employee's written request for payment accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as Duke Energy reasonably may require, provided that the Employee shall request reimbursement not later than eleven (11) months after which the underlying expense is incurred and any such payment shall be made not later than the last day of the year following the year in which the underlying expense was incurred.
Document Preparation Fees
21. . It is the intention of Duke Energy and the Employee that this Agreement not result in unfavorable tax consequences to the Employee under Section 409A. To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A.  The Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A).  Duke Energy and the Employee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that Duke Energy shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, the Employee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Employer for purposes of the Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under the Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from Duke Energy within the meaning of Section 409A.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to the Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Employee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 30 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of the Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Employee pursuant to the Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A.  With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided under the terms of the Agreement, (i) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided in another taxable year, (ii) any reimbursements of such expenses and the provision of any in-kind benefits shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A, provided that with respect to any reimbursements for any taxes to which the Employee becomes entitled under the terms of the Agreement, the payment of such reimbursements shall be made by Duke Energy no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Employee remits the related taxes, and (iii) the right to reimbursement or in-kind benefit shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
Code  409A
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
Pursuant to Section 2(b), the following service of the Employee is hereby approved as of the Effective Date:
 
Service on the board of directors of Applied Materials, Inc., Fifth Third Bancorp and CIGNA Corporation
EXHIBIT B
 
For purposes of Section 10, "Cause" and "Good Reason" shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
 
"Cause" means:
 
(a) The willful and continued failure by the Employee to substantially perform the Employee's duties with Duke Energy or any of its subsidiaries or to comply with the policies, rules and decisions adopted from time to time by Duke Energy, its Board and any employing subsidiaries of which the Employee is made aware or reasonably should be aware (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that, if curable, has not been cured within 30 days after the Board has delivered to the Employee a written demand for substantial performance, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Employee has not substantially performed his duties. This event will constitute Cause even if the Employee issues a Notice of Termination (as described below) for Good Reason after the Board delivers a written demand for substantial performance.
 
(b) The breach by the Employee of the provisions set forth in Section 9.
 
(c) The conviction of the Employee for the commission of a felony, including the entry of a guilty or nolo contendere plea, or any willful or grossly negligent action or inaction by the Employee that has a materially adverse effect on Duke Energy. For purposes of this definition of Cause, no act, or failure to act, on the Employee's part will be deemed "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith and without reasonable belief that the Employee's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of Duke Energy.
 
"Good Reason" means:
 
(a) The material reduction without his consent of the Employee's title, authority, duties, or responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the reduction, the failure by Duke Energy without the consent of the Employee to nominate the Employee for re-election to the Board, or a material adverse change in the Employee's reporting responsibilities, in each case except to the extent as a result of the Employee ceasing to be Chairman of the Board or President of Duke Energy in accordance with Section 2(e) hereof provided that the Employee continues to serve as Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy without material reduction in his authority, duties, or responsibilities as such, or material adverse change in his reporting responsibilities as such, from those in effect immediately prior to his ceasing to serve as Chairman of the Board or President, as the case may be.
 
(b) Any breach by Duke Energy of any other material provision of this Agreement (including but not limited to the place of performance as specified in Section 2(d)).
Any termination of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy for Cause or by the Employee for Good Reason will be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other party to this Agreement in accordance with the following requirements:
 
(a) The notice indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon as the basis for termination.
 
(b) To the extent applicable, the notice sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Employee's employment for Good Reason or Cause (as the case may be).
 
(c) If the date of termination of employment is other than the date of receipt of the notice, the notice specifies the date of termination, which will be no more than 30 days after the date the notice was given. The failure by the Employee or Duke Energy to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstances that contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause will not waive any right of the Employee or Duke Energy under this Agreement or preclude the Employee or Duke Energy from asserting that fact or circumstance in enforcing rights under this Agreement.
 
(d) If for Cause, the notice must include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less three quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board (excluding the Employee, if he is a member of the Board) at a meeting of the Board called and held for the purpose of considering the termination. The resolution must include a finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board (excluding the Employee, if he is a member of the Board), the Employee was guilty of conduct set forth in the definition of Cause, and it must specify the particulars of the conduct in detail.
EXHIBIT C
 
This RELEASE OF CLAIMS (the "Release") is executed and delivered by James E. Rogers (the "Employee") to DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION (together with its successors, "Duke").
 
In consideration of the agreement by Duke to provide the Employee with the rights, payments and benefits under the Employment Agreement between the Employee and Duke dated                      (the "Employment Agreement"), the Employee hereby agrees as follows:
 
Section 1. Release and Covenant. The Employee, of his own free will, voluntarily and unconditionally releases and forever discharges Duke, its subsidiaries, parents, affiliates, their directors, officers, employees, agents, stockholders, successors and assigns (both individually and in their official capacities with Duke) (the "Duke Releasees") from, any and all past or present causes of action, suits, agreements or other claims which the Employee, his dependents, relatives, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns has or may hereafter have from the beginning of time to the date hereof against Duke or the Duke Releasees upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, including, but not limited to, any matters arising out of his employment by Duke and the cessation of said employment or any claim for compensation, and including, but not limited to, any alleged violation of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 and 1991, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the North Carolina Equal Employment Protection Act and any other federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, or public policy, contract or tort law having any bearing whatsoever on the terms and conditions of employment or termination of employment. This Release shall not, however, constitute a waiver of any of the Employee's rights under the Employment Agreement.
 
Section 2. Due Care. The Employee acknowledges that he has received a copy of this Release prior to its execution and has been advised hereby of his opportunity to review and consider this Release for 21 days prior to its execution. The Employee further acknowledges that he has been advised hereby to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release. The Employee enters into this Release having freely and knowingly elected, after due consideration, to execute this Release and to fulfill the promises set forth herein. This Release shall be revocable by the Employee during the 7-day period following its execution, and shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of such 7-day period. In the event of such a revocation, the Employee shall not be entitled to the consideration for this Release set forth above.
 
Section 3. Nonassignment of Claims; Proceedings. The Employee represents and warrants that there has been no assignment or other transfer of any interest in any claim which the Employee may have against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees. The Employee represents that he has not commenced or joined in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees arising out of or relating to any of the matters set
forth in this Release. The Employee further agrees that he will not seek or be entitled to any personal recovery in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees for any of the matters set forth in this Release.
 
Section 4. Reliance by Employee. The Employee acknowledges that, in his decision to enter into this Release, he has not relied on any representations, promises or agreements of any kind, including oral statements by representatives of Duke or any of the Duke Releasees, except as set forth in this Release and the Employment Agreement.
 
Section 5. Nonadmission. Nothing contained in this Release will be deemed or construed as an admission of wrongdoing or liability on the part of Duke or any of the Duke Releasees.
 
Section 6. Communication of Safety Concerns. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Employee remains free to report or otherwise communicate any nuclear safety concern, any workplace safety concern, or any public safety concern to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, United States Department of Labor, or any other appropriate federal or state governmental agency, and the Employee remains free to participate in any federal or state administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation with respect to any claims and matters not resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement. With respect to any claims and matters resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement, the Employee is free to participate in any federal or state administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation if subpoenaed. The Employee shall give Duke, through its legal counsel, notice, including a copy of the subpoena, within twenty-four (24) hours of receipt thereof.
 
Section 7. Governing Law. This Release shall be interpreted, construed and governed according to the laws of the State of North Carolina, without reference to conflicts of law principles thereof.
 
This RELEASE OF CLAIMS is executed by the Employee and delivered to Duke on              .
                                          
EXHIBIT D
 
1. Outstanding equity awards granted under the Cinergy Corp. 1996 Long-Term Incentive Compensation Plan and the Cinergy Corp. Stock Option Plan
 
2. Accrued benefit under the Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan and Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan (previously known as the Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' 401(k) Plan)
 
3. Grandfathered retiree medical benefits under the Cinergy Corp. Welfare Benefit Program
 
4. Deferred Compensation Agreement, dated December 16, 1992, as amended (PSI annuities)
 
5. Duke Energy Corporation Executive Savings Plan
 
6. Legacy Cinergy Banked Vacation

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of                      , (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and (the "Grantee").
Phantom Stock
Award Agreement
Duke Energy Corporation
James E. Rogers
 
The Corporation has entered into an employment agreement with the Grantee dated February 19, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement"), pursuant to which it has agreed to make certain equity-based awards to the Grantee, including the award memorialized by this Agreement (the "Award").  The Award memorialized by this Agreement is made pursuant to the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan").  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan and the Employment Agreement, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
Section 1
.  .  The number of Phantom Stock units and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each              .  Each Phantom Stock unit, upon becoming vested before its expiration, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent represents a right to receive cash payments equivalent to the amount of cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Number and Nature of Phantom Stock Units and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
 
Section 2
.  .  The specified percentage of the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award, and not previously forfeited, shall vest, with such percentage considered satisfied to the extent such Phantom Stock units have previously vested, as follows:
Vesting of Phantom Stock Units
 
(a)           Upon Grantee remaining continuously employed by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant through the Vesting Date,
 
 
(i)            For purposes of vesting under this Section 2(a), if such employment terminates as a result of termination of such employment (1) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (2) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (3) by reason of retirement of the Grantee with approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board"), subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as described in the Employment Agreement, each Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award, which unit has not previously been forfeited or vested, shall continue to vest under this Section 2(a) as if Grantee's employment had not been terminated
 
(ii)           If such employment terminates (1) as the result of Grantee's death or (2) as the result of Grantee's disability (meaning any physical or mental illness or injury that precludes Grantee from performing any job for which he is qualified and able to perform based upon his education, training or experience), subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as further described in the Employment Agreement, each Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award, which unit has not previously been forfeited or vested, immediately shall become fully vested.
 
(iii)          If such employment terminates as a result of termination of such employment (1) by the Employee other than with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and other than by reason of retirement with the approval of the Board or (2) by the Corporation for "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), each Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award, which unit has not previously been forfeited or vested, shall expire and be forfeited immediately.
 
(iv)          In the event that at a time when vesting would otherwise occur under this Section 2(a), Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before January 15 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which occurs the Date of Grant.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to such January 15, any Phantom Stock units covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).
 
(b)           If, following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan as in effect on the effective date of the Employment Agreement) and before vesting or forfeiture, such employment is terminated (1) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), (2) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (3) by reason of retirement of the Grantee with the approval of the Board, each Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award, which unit has not previously been forfeited or vested, immediately shall become fully vested.
Section 3
. 
Grantee Obligation under Employment Agreement
.  Grantee acknowledges that this Award is subject to Grantee's obligations under the confidentiality, noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement.
 
Section 4
.  .  Any Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award shall be forfeited and expire upon the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time the unit of Phantom Stock with respect to which the Dividend Equivalent is in tandem (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, (ii) is forfeited, or (iii) expires.  The Grantee agrees that, in the event he violates the confidentiality, noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, (1) he will forfeit and not be entitled to any further payments in accordance with Section 2(a)(i) hereof and (2) if such violation is after the termination of his employment, he will be obligated to repay to the Corporation any amounts paid (determined as of the date of payment) after the termination of employment pursuant to Section 2(a) or (b) hereof, with such sum reduced by any amount previously repaid pursuant to this Section 4.  Such amount shall be paid to the Corporation in cash in a single sum within ten (10) business days after the first date of the violation, whether or not the Corporation has knowledge of the violation or has made a demand for payment. Any such payment made following such date shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime lending rate of Citibank, N.A. (as periodically set) plus 1%.
Expiration
Forfeiture/
 
Section 5
.  .  Payments with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall be paid in cash to the Grantee within 60 days after the time cash dividends are declared and paid with respect to the Common Stock on or after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires, but in no event later than the calendar year in which the dividends are declared and paid.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Any required tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Phantom Stock units shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, in its discretion, permits Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
Dividend Equivalent Payments
 
Section 6
. 
Payment of Phantom Stock Units
.  Payment of Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the time such units become vested in accordance with Section 2 prior to their expiration but in no event later than 60 days following such vesting, except to the extent deferred by Grantee in accordance with such procedures as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time or except to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be
in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested unit of Phantom Stock and any fractional vested unit of Phantom Stock shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Phantom Stock units became vested, or if later, payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective unit of Phantom Stock became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
 
Section 7
.  .  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
No Employment Rights
 
Section 8
.  .  The Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by the Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent or right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Nonalienation
 
Section 9
.  .  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Determinations
 
Section 10
.  .  The validity and construction of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Delaware applicable to transactions taking place entirely within that state.
Governing Law
 
Section 11
.  .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In addition, in the event that any provision of this Agreement and/or Plan conflicts in any way with a provision of the Employment Agreement, such Employment Agreement provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement and/or Plan shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Employment Agreement provision to be controlling, except to the extent such treatment would constitute a material modification of the Plan requiring stockholder approval.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect a Phantom Stock Award properly granted to Grantee pursuant to the Plan and the Employment Agreement, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 30 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
 
Section 12
.  .  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Compliance with Law
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
Acceptance of Phantom Stock Award
 
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement effective this          day of                     .
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
THIS AGREEMENT
is made as of the Grant Date specified above (the "Grant Date"), between Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), and the Optionee specified above (the "Optionee").
 
The Corporation has entered into an employment agreement with the Grantee dated                               (the "Employment Agreement"), pursuant to which it has agreed to make certain equity-based awards to the Grantee, including the award memorialized by this Agreement (the "Award").  The Award is made pursuant to the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan").  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
Section 1
.  .  Pursuant to the provisions of the Employment Agreement, the Corporation hereby grants to the Optionee, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Employment Agreement and this Agreement, the right and option to purchase from the Corporation the aggregate number of                  shares of common stock of the Company ("Common Stock") at a per share price of                  (the "Option Price"), all subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3.2 of the Plan (collectively, the "Option"). The Option is not an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code. This Agreement shall constitute an "Award Agreement" under the Plan.
Grant and Designation of Option
 
Section 2
.  .  Subject to earlier forfeiture, termination, acceleration or cancellation of the Option as provided in this Agreement, the term of the Option shall be for a period of ten (10) years from the Grant Date.  Subject to the provisions of this Agreement, the Option shall vest at such times and as to such number of shares as determined on the basis of the following schedule:
Term of Option and Vesting
 
 
Section 3
.  .  To the extent that the right to purchase shares has become vested, the Option, or any part thereof, may be exercised by giving signed, written notice
Method of Exercise
of exercise to the Corporation (the "Exercise Notice") specifying the number of shares to be purchased, subject to Section 7.  The date of exercise shall be the date the properly completed Exercise Notice is delivered to the Corporation.  The Exercise Notice shall be accompanied by payment of the aggregate Option Price for the shares to be purchased, in the following manner:
 
(a)           in U.S. dollars by personal check, bank draft or money order payable to the order of the Corporation, or by wire transfer or direct account debit; or
 
(b)           by delivery of shares of Common Stock or other securities of the Corporation with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise at least equal to the Option Price for the shares being purchased; or
 
(c)           by combination of the methods described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
 
For purposes of paragraph (a) above, if, and in such manner, as the Optionee is permitted by the Corporation's Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, and which is not contrary to federal or state securities or other laws, rules and regulations, the Optionee may provide for the payment of the aggregate Option Price for the shares to be purchased by delivering a properly executed Exercise Notice together with irrevocable instructions to a broker to promptly deliver to the Corporation the amount of such aggregate Option Price.  The Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may comply with applicable law or internal procedures by restricting the manner by which the Optionee may pay the Option Price or permitting an alternate method therefore.
 
Subject to Section 4 and the other applicable provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, in the event of the exercise of the Option, the Corporation shall deliver to the Optionee or, if applicable, to a broker designated by the Optionee, a certificate representing the shares of Common Stock purchased as a result of the exercise.
 
Section 4
.  .  Shares of Common Stock shall not be issued upon the exercise of the Option unless all federal, state and other governmental withholding tax requirements arising from such exercise have been satisfied by the Optionee or provision therefor has been made to the satisfaction of the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department.  The number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be deliverable upon exercise of the Option shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, to fully satisfy any tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion permits Optionee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
Tax Withholding
 
Section 5
.  .  The Option granted hereunder is not assignable or transferable by the Optionee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable, during the Optionee's lifetime, only by the Optionee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of the Option, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions hereof, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon, or other voluntary or involuntary attempted alienation of, the Option, or any right or privilege conferred hereby, the Option and the right and privilege conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 5,
Nonalienation
in accordance with Section 6.5 of the Plan, the Optionee may, with the advance approval of the Committee, transfer or assign some or all of the Option granted hereunder to members of the Optionee's immediate family (as determined by the Committee) or to trusts, partnerships or corporations whose beneficiaries, members or owners are members of the Optionee's immediate family. Any such transfer or assignment shall be subject to the terms and conditions specified by the Committee as described in an Option Transfer Agreement to be executed by the Corporation, the Optionee and the assignee or transferee.  Except to the extent provided in Sections 3 or 4 above or the foregoing provisions of this Section 5, in no event may shares of Common Stock subject to the Option be sold, transferred, exchanged, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, alienated or otherwise encumbered until January 1, 2014 or, if earlier, the termination of the Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including its Subsidiaries).
 
Section 6
.  .  The Optionee shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares of Common Stock subject to the Option prior to the date of issuance to Optionee of a certificate or certificates for such shares.
Rights as a Stockholder
 
Section 7
.  .  The Option shall be subject to the following provisions in the case of the cessation of the Optionee's employment during the term of the Option:
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
(a)           In the event that the Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including Subsidiaries) terminates by reason of death or disability (meaning any physical or mental illness or injury that precludes the Optionee from performing any job for which he is qualified and able to perform based upon his education, training or experience), subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as described in the Employment Agreement, any portion of the Option that is then unvested shall vest immediately.
 
(b)           In the event that the Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including Subsidiaries) terminates as a result of termination of such employment (i) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (ii) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (iii) by reason of retirement of the Grantee with approval of the Board, subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as described in the Employment Agreement, any portion of the Option that is then unvested shall continue to vest as if the Optionee's employment had not been terminated.
 
(c)           In the event that the Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including Subsidiaries) terminates as a result of termination of such employment by the Employee other than with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and other than by reason of retirement with the approval of the Board, any portion of the Option that is then unvested shall expire immediately.
 
(d)           In the event that the Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including Subsidiaries) terminates as a result of termination of such employment by the Corporation  for "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), each Option (vested or unvested) then outstanding shall expire immediately.
(e)           In the event that following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan as in effect on the effective date of the Employment Agreement) and before the second anniversary of such occurrence, Optionee's continuous employment by the Corporation (including Subsidiaries) is terminated (1) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), (2) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (3) by reason of retirement of the Optionee with the approval of the Board, any portion of the Option that is then unvested shall vest immediately.
 
Subject to the limitations described in the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, the Option may be exercised, to the extent vested, at any time within ten (10) years from the Grant Date; provided that, if the Optionee's employment terminates as described above in Section 7(c), the Option may be exercised, to the extent then vested, at any time within ninety (90) days from the date of termination (provided that in no event may the Option be exercised more than ten (10) years from the Grant Date), after which time the Option shall expire.  The Committee may make such provision as it deems appropriate if the Optionee is on approved leave of absence from employment by the Corporation (including its Subsidiaries).
 
Section 8
.  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any notice to be given to the Corporation under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Executive Compensation and Benefits DepartmentStock Option (PB04A), Duke Energy Corporation at P.O. Box 1244, Charlotte, North Carolina 28201-1244, and any notice to be given to the Optionee under this Agreement shall be addressed to the Optionee at the address for the Optionee obtained from the records of the Corporation's Executive Compensation and Benefits Department; provided, however, that either party may substitute a different address by notice in writing to the other.  Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given if and when enclosed in a properly sealed envelope addressed as aforesaid and deposited, postage prepaid, in a post office or branch post office regularly maintained by the United States Government.
Notices
 
Section 9
.  .  Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer upon the Optionee the right to continue in the employment or the service of the Company or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Optionee at any time for any, or no, reason.
No Employment Rights
 
Section 10
.  .  This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, the Corporation, and its successors and assigns, and the Optionee, and the Optionee's successors and assigns expressly permitted by Section 5.
Successors and Assigns
 
Section 11
.  .  In accepting the Option, Optionee acknowledges that this Option is subject to Optionee's obligations under the confidentiality, noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement.  The Optionee agrees that, in the event he violates the confidentiality, noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, (1) any Options then outstanding shall expire immediately and (2) if such violation is after the termination of his employment, he will be obligated to repay to the
Optionee Obligations under Employment Agreement and Violations Thereof
Corporation the amount of any gains realized by the Optionee upon the exercise of Options (measured by the difference between the aggregate fair market value on the date of exercise of shares underlying the Option and the aggregate exercise price of the Option) within the one-year period prior to the first date of the violation, with such sum reduced by any amount previously repaid pursuant to this Section 11.  Such amount shall be paid to the Corporation in cash in a single sum within ten (10) business days after the first date of the violation, whether or not the Corporation has knowledge of the violation or has made a demand for payment. Any such payment made following such date shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime lending rate of Citibank, N.A. (as periodically set) plus 1%.
 
Section 12
.  .  This Agreement shall be governed by, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to transactions that take place entirely within the State of Delaware and, where applicable, the laws of the United States.
Governing Law
 
Section 13
.  .  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan, the Certificate or this Agreement.
Determinations
 
Section 14
.  .  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In addition, in the event that any provision of this Agreement and/or Plan conflicts in any way with a provision of the Employment Agreement, the Employment Agreement provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement and/or Plan shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Employment Agreement provision to be controlling, except to the extent such treatment would constitute a material modification of the Plan requiring stockholder approval.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect an Award properly granted to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan and the Employment Agreement, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to the Optionee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Optionee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Optionee's Consent
 
By their execution of this Agreement, the Corporation and Optionee enter into this Agreement and agree to be bound by its provisions.
IN WITNESS OF
its agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement, has caused this Agreement to be signed on its behalf by its duly authorized officer effective this            day of                           in duplicate.
DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION
 
IN WITNESS OF
Optionee's acceptance of and Optionee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, Section 11 hereof) and the Plan, Optionee has signed this Agreement effective this                                          .
THE OPTION
 

EXHIBIT 10.4
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of                                   (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and (the "Grantee").
Performance Award Agreement
Duke Energy Corporation
James E. Rogers
 
The Corporation has entered into an employment agreement with the Grantee dated February 19, 2009 (the "Employment Agreement"), pursuant to which it has agreed to make certain equity-based awards to the Grantee, including the award memorialized by this Agreement (the "Award").  The Award memorialized by this Agreement is made pursuant to the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan").  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan and the Employment Agreement, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
Section 1
.  .
Number and Nature of Performance Shares and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
 
(a)
                                 
At maximum performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to Section 2(a)(i) and the remaining provisions of this Award (other than Section 2(a)(ii)) are each                 ; at target performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject Section 2(a)(i) and the remaining provisions of this Award (other than Section 2(a)(ii)) are each               .  Such maximum and target number of Performance Shares shall be subject to adjustment in respect of attainment of safety goals as further described in Section 2(a)(i).  The Performance Shares described in this Section 1(a) are herein referred to as the "Annual Performance Shares."
 
(b)
                                
At maximum performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to Section 2(a)(ii) and the remaining provisions of this Award (other than Section 2(a)(i)) are each               ; at target performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject Section 2(a)(ii) and the remaining provisions of this Award (other than Section 2(a)(i)) are each                  .  The Performance Shares described in this Section 1(b) are herein referred to as the "Long-Term Performance Shares" and, together with the Annual Performance Shares, as the "Performance Shares."
(c)
                                 
Each Performance Share, upon becoming vested before its expiration, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent, after its tandem Performance Share vests, represents a right to receive a cash payment equivalent in amount to the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
 
Section 2
.  .
Vesting of Performance Shares
 
(a)
                                 
Performance Goals
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, the Performance Shares shall vest only if and to the extent the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, determines that the performance goals for the respective performance period (the "Performance Goals") have been met (provided that such determination in respect of any performance period shall be made not later than the first March 15 following the end of the applicable performance period).  To the extent Performance Goals are not met, the Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.
 
(i)
                                    
The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to the Annual Performance Shares and the related Dividend Equivalents.  Provided Grntee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), 80% of such Performance Shares shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the same goals (including the safety penalty and adder) established by the Committee for the other executive officers of the Corporation in respect of corporate performance under the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Short-Term Incentive Plan for the period beginning                           and ending                                     (the "Short-Term Performance Period"), and the remaining 20% of such Performance Shares shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Grantee achieves the individual goals established by the Committee for the Short-Term Performance Period (as set forth on Schedule I hereto), in each case in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified in the following schedule (expressed as a percent of the target number of Annual Performance Shares) and subject to the adjustments described therein, and such Annual Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited:
a
 
*When a performance determination is at a level between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
 
** If EPS performance is at less than the minimum level, the Committee reserves discretion to reduce the amounts otherwise payable by reason of attainment of the O&M and Reliability Goals.
 
(ii)
                                 
The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to the Long-Term Performance Shares and the related Dividend Equivalents.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), such Performance Shares shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the same performance share goals established by the Committee for the other executive officers of the Corporation under the Corporation's         long-term incentive program for the period beginning                            and ending                         (the "Long-Term Performance Period" and, together with the Short-Term Performance Period, each a "Performance Period") in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified in the following schedule (expressed as a percent of the target number of Long-Term Performance Shares), and such Long-Term Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited:
 
 
*When a performance determination is at a level between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
 
(b)
                                
Certain Terminations
 
The provisions of this Section 2(b) shall apply in the event that, prior to the date that the determination of the achievement of each respective Performance Goal is made, the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates as follows:
 
(i)
                                    
If such employment terminates as a result of termination of such employment (1) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (2) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (3) by reason of retirement of the Grantee with approval of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Board"), subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as described in the Employment Agreement, each Performance Share outstanding at the time of such termination shall remain outstanding and shall be payable (if at all) as determined with its terms without regard to the termination of employment.
 
(ii)
                                 
If such employment terminates (1) as the result of the Grantee's death or (2) as the result of the Grantee's disability (meaning any physical or mental illness or
injury that precludes Grantee from performing any job for which he is qualified and able to perform based upon his education, training or experience), subject to the timely execution and non-revocation of a release of claims as further described in the Employment Agreement, each Performance Share outstanding at the time of such termination shall remain outstanding and shall be payable (if at all) as determined with its terms without regard to the termination of employment, provided that the amount payable shall be such proportion of the amount otherwise payable that the number of days elapsed at the time of termination (inclusive) in the applicable Performance Period not yet concluded at the time of termination bears to the total number of days in the applicable Performance Period.
 
(iii)
                              
If such employment terminates as a result of termination of such employment (1) by the Employee other than with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and other than by reason of retirement with the approval of the Board or (2) by the Corporation  for "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), each Performance Share outstanding at the time of such termination shall expire and be forfeited immediately.
 
(iv)
                             
If, following the occurrence of a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan as in effect on the effective date of the Employment Agreement) and before the second anniversary of such occurrence, such employment is terminated (1) by the Corporation without "Cause" (as defined in the Employment Agreement), (2) by the Grantee with "Good Reason" (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or (3) by reason of retirement of the Grantee with the approval of the Board, each Performance Share subject to this Award that is then outstanding shall vest immediately upon such termination based on the target level of performance, irrespective of any subsequent determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal.
 
(c)
                                 
Approved Leave of Absence
 
In the event that Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence on the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the applicable Performance Period ends, and if the Grantee returns after March 15 of the year following the year in which the applicable Performance Period ends, payment shall occur not later than the year in which the Grantee returns.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends, any Performance Shares covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).   Further, in the event that such determination is made and during any portion of the applicable Performance Period the Grantee was on employer-approved, personal leave of absence, the applicable vesting percentage shall be determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to reflect only that portion of the applicable Performance Period during which such employment continued while the Grantee was entitled to payment of salary.
Section 3
. 
Grantee Obligation under Employment Agreement
.  Grantee acknowledges that this Award is subject to Grantee's obligations under the confidentiality, noncompetition and nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement.
 
Section 4
.  .  Any Performance Share subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time its tandem Performance Share (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, (ii) is forfeited, or (iii) expires.  The Grantee agrees that, in the event he violates the confidentiality, noncompetition or nonsolicitation provisions set forth in Section 9 of the Employment Agreement, (1) he will forfeit and not be entitled to any further payments in accordance with Section 2(b)(i) hereof and (2) if such violation is after the termination of his employment, he will be obligated to repay to the Corporation any amounts paid (determined as of the date of payment) after the termination of employment pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, with such sum reduced by any amount previously repaid pursuant to this Section 4.  Such amount shall be paid to the Corporation in cash in a single sum within ten (10) business days after the first date of the violation, whether or not the Corporation has knowledge of the violation or has made a demand for payment. Any such payment made following such date shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime lending rate of Citibank, N.A. (as periodically set) plus 1%.
Forfeiture/Expiration
 
Section 5
.  .  Payment with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award that is in tandem with a Performance Share that is vested and paid shall be paid in cash to the Grantee at the same time as the vested Performance Share as provided in Section 6, or, if the vested Performance Share is deferred by Grantee as provided in Section 6, payment with respect to the tandem Dividend Equivalent shall likewise be deferred.  The Dividend Equivalent payment amount shall equal the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid with respect to one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Any required tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Performance Shares shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion, permits Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
Dividend Equivalent Payment
 
Section 6
.  .   Payment of Performance Shares subject to this Award that become vested shall be made to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the end of the applicable Performance Period (and in any event on or before the first March 15 following the end of the applicable Performance Period), except to the extent deferred by the Grantee in accordance with such procedure as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time; provided that, in the case of Performance Shares that become vested by reason
Payment of Performance Shares
of the application of Section 2(b)(iv), payment shall be made as soon as practicable and in any event within thirty (30) days following the applicable termination of employment unless the Change in Control does not constitute a change in the ownership or effective control of the Corporation or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, in which case payment shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the applicable Performance Period (and in any event on or before the first March 15 following the end of the applicable Performance Period); and provided further that payment shall in any event be made in a manner required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code. Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested Performance Share, and any fractional vested Performance Share shall be rounded down to the next whole share for purposes of both vesting under Section 2 and payment under Section 6.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Share became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegate, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payments to the Corporation.
 
Section 7
.  .  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
No Employment Right
 
Section 8
.  .  The Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or such right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Nonalienation
 
Section 9
.  .  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Determinations
 
Section 10
.  .  This Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to transactions that take place entirely within that state.
Governing Law
 
Section 11
.  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In addition, in the event that any provision of this Agreement and/or Plan conflicts in any way with a provision of the Employment Agreement, such Employment Agreement provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement and/or
. 
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
Plan shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Employment Agreement provision to be controlling, except to the extent such treatment would constitute a material modification of the Plan requiring stockholder approval.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect an Award properly granted to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan and the Employment Agreement, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 30 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  Grantee acknowledges and agrees that payments made under this Agreement are subject to the Corporation's requirement that the Grantee reimburse the portion of any payment where such portion of the payment was predicated upon the achievement of financial results that are subsequently the subject of a restatement caused or partially caused by Grantee's fraud or misconduct.
 
Section 12
.  .  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Compliance with Law
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
 
Acceptance of Performance Award
 
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Performance Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement effective this            day of                               .
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.5
 
PERFORMANCE AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and (the "Grantee").
Performance Award Agreement
February 19, 2009
Duke Energy Corporation
                                
 
RECITALS
 
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the Performance Shares and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
.  At target performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each                                     ; at maximum performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this award are equal to 150% of the number of Performance Shares and tandem Dividend Equivalents at target performance, respectively.  The number of such Performance Shares that may become vested upon determination of achievement of each Performance Goal at maximum, as provided in Section 2(a), is 150% of the number that becomes vested at target performance.  Each Performance Share, upon becoming vested, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent, after its tandem Performance Share vests, represents a right to receive a cash payment equivalent in amount to the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Section 1.
                           
Number and Nature of Performance Shares and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
Section 2.
                           
Vesting of Performance Shares
.
 
(a) .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, the Performance Shares shall vest only if and to the extent the Committee, or its delegatee, determines that the Performance Goals (as defined below) have been met (provided that such determination shall be made not later than the first March 15 following the end of the Performance Period, as defined below).  To the extent Performance Goals are not met, the Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.
Performance Goals
 
The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), up to one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "TSR Performance Goal," which is the Corporation's Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") percentile ranking among the companies that are in the Philadelphia Utility Index as of the end of the Performance Period, with higher percentile ranking for more positive/less negative TSR, for the period beginning January 1, 2009 and ending December 31, 2011 ("Performance Period"), in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for such percentile ranking in the following schedule:
(i)
                                    
 
 
When such determination is of a percentile ranking between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
*
    
 
Such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.  For purposes of this Agreement, TSR means the change in fair market value over a specified period of time, expressed as a percentage,
of an initial investment in specified common stock, with dividends reinvested, all as determined utilizing such methodology as the Committee, or its delegatee, shall approve, provided, however, that the Committee, or its delegatee, shall have the discretion to make appropriate and equitable adjustments to the TSR of any company (including the Corporation) whose shares trade ex-dividend as of December 31, 2011, provided, however, that no such adjustment shall be permitted if it would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code.  In the event that a company becomes a member of the Philadelphia Utility Index following January 1, 2009, such company shall not be taken into account for purposes of this Agreement.
 
The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), up to one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "CAGR Performance Goal," which is based on the Corporation's compounded annual growth rate ("CAGR") with respect to its adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS"), as calculated in accordance with , for the Performance Period, in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for CAGR in the following schedule:
(ii)
                                 
Exhibit A
 
 
When such determination is at a level between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
*
    
 
Such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.
(b) In the event that, prior to the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, the Performance Shares subject to this Award are thereupon forfeited, except that if such employment terminates (i) at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or a Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or the Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, (ii) as the result of the Grantee's death, (iii) as the result of the Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), (iv) as the result of the termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Corporation or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, or (v) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business, or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating on the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary (unless such termination occurs after the end of the Performance Period, in which event the number of Performance Shares earned, if any, shall not be prorated).
 
In the event that Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence on the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends, any Performance Shares covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).   Further, in the event that such determination is made and during any portion of the Performance Period the Grantee was on employer-approved, personal leave of absence, the applicable vesting percentage shall be determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to reflect only that portion of the Performance Period during which such employment continued while the Grantee was entitled to payment of salary.
(c) In the event that a Change in Control occurs before the Performance Period has ended and (i) before the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, or (ii) after such employment terminates during the Performance Period, (A) at a time when Grantee is considered "retired", unless the Corporation, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, or (B) as the result of an event listed in items (ii)  (v) of the first sentence of Section 2(b), the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such occurrence, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating down, assuming performance at the target level for each Performance Goalon the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that has elapsed prior to the time of such occurrence (or such earlier termination of employment), and the remaining Performance Shares shall be forfeited, irrespective of any subsequent determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal.
,
 
..  In consideration of the continued vesting opportunity provided under Section 2 following the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, if, at the time of such termination of employment, Grantee is considered "retired", Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with such termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not (i) without the prior written consent of the Corporation, or its delegatee, become employed by, serve as a principal, partner, or member of the board of directors of, or in any similar capacity with, or otherwise provide service to, a competitor, to the detriment, of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, (ii) violate any of Grantee's other noncompetition obligations, or any of Grantee's nonsolicitation or nondisclosure obligations, to the Corporation or any Subsidiary; or (iii) except as required by subpoena or other legal process (in which event the Grantee will give the Chief Legal Officer of the Corporation prompt notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit the Corporation or any affected individual to seek appropriate protective orders), publish or provide any oral or written statements about the Corporation or any Subsidiary, any of the Corporation's or any Subsidiary's current or former officers, executives, directors, employees, agents or representatives or any initiative, program or policy of the Corporation or any Subsidiary relating to any matter whatsoever that are disparaging, slanderous, libelous or defamatory, or that disclose private or confidential information about their business affairs, or that constitute an intrusion into their private lives, or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about their private lives, or that place them in a false light before the public, or that constitute a misappropriation of their name or likeness. The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be limited in scope and shall be effective only with respect to competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy
Section 3
                           
Violation of Grantee Obligation
solutions; development and management of fiber optic communications systems; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas (i) any country in the world where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least US$25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including Subsidiaries; (ii) the continent of North America; (iii) the United States of America and Canada; (iv) the United States of America; (v) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Texas, California, Massachusetts, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Colorado, Oklahoma and Louisiana; (vi) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Colorado, Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana; and (vii) any state or states with respect to which was conducted a business of the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, which business constituted a substantial portion of Grantee's employment.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including areas.  If any part of this provision is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or area, including deletion of specific words and phrases, i.e., "blue penciling", and in its modified, reduced or blue pencil form, such part shall become enforceable and shall be enforced.  Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee from being retained during the Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee from providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
 
.  Any Performance Share subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time its tandem Performance Share (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, or (ii) is forfeited.
Section 4.
                           
Forfeiture
 
.  Payment with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award that is in tandem with a Performance Share that is vested and paid shall be paid in cash to the Grantee at the same time as the vested Performance Share as provided in Section 6, or, if the vested Performance Share is deferred by Grantee as provided in Section 6, payment with respect to the tandem Dividend Equivalent shall likewise be deferred.  The Dividend Equivalent payment amount shall equal the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid with respect to one (1) share of Common Stock for the period
Section 5.
                           
Dividend Equivalent Payment
beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Any required income tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Performance Shares shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion, requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
 
.   Payment of Performance Shares subject to this Award that become vested shall be made to the Grantee on the earlier of: (i) the calendar year immediately following the Performance Period, or (ii) within 30 days after the occurrence of a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, except to the extent deferred by the Grantee in accordance with such procedures as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time or except to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested Performance Share, and any fractional vested Performance Share shall be rounded up to the next whole share for purposes of both vesting under Section 2 and payment under Section 6.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Share became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegate, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.  In the event that payment, after any reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be for less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Shares became vested.
Section 6.
                           
Payment of Performance Shares
 
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any
Section 7.
                           
No Employment Right
Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
 
.  The Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or such right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Section 8.
                           
Nonalienation
 
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Section 9.
                           
Determinations
 
.  This Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to transactions that take place entirely within that state.
Section 10.
                    
Governing Law
 
In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect an Award properly granted to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.
Section 11
.
                    
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
. 
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the
Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 30 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
 
Grantee acknowledges and agrees that payments made under this Agreement are subject to the Corporation's requirement that the Grantee reimburse the portion of any payment where such portion of the payment was predicated upon the achievement of financial results that are subsequently the subject of a restatement caused or partially caused by Grantee's fraud or misconduct.
 
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Section 12.
                    
Compliance with Law
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than, has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department - Performance Award [(STO6E)], Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1007, Charlotte, NC 28201-1007, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
                        , 2009
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Performance Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this            day of                                           , 2009.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.6
 
PHANTOM STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of(the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and                                (the "Grantee").
Phantom Stock
Award Agreement
February 19, 2009,
Duke Energy Corporation
 
RECITALS
 
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2006 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the Phantom Stock units and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
              .  The number of Phantom Stock units and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each                                                     .  Each Phantom Stock unit, upon becoming vested, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent represents a right to receive cash payments equivalent to the amount of cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Section 1.
Number and Nature of Phantom Stock Units and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
 
.  The specified percentage of the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award, and not previously forfeited, shall vest, with such percentage considered satisfied to the extent such Phantom Stock units have previously vested, as follows:
Section 2.
             
Vesting of Phantom Stock Units
 
(a)           Upon Grantee remaining continuously employed by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, through the specified anniversary of the Date
with respect to the percentage of Phantom Stock units set forth next to such date:
of Grant (each a "Vesting Date"),
 
 
) anniversary of the Date of Grant during which such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary, and any such Phantom Stock units not then or previously vested shall be forfeited.
For purposes of vesting under this Section 2(a), if such employment terminates upon Retirement, which is defined as termination at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or the delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, then Grantee's employment shall be considered to continue, with continued vesting under this Section 2(a), unless the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, in which case any such Phantom Stock units not previously vested, or vested by application of the following sentence shall be forfeited, or unless the Grantee dies, in which case the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall vest in accordance with the following sentences.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of Grantee's death or (ii) as the result of Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), all Phantom Stock units subject to this Award, which units have not previously been forfeited or vested, immediately shall become fully vested.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee or (ii) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall vest at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating from the above schedule to reflect only that portion of the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending with the third (3
rd
 
Unless the Grantee would satisfy the definition of Retirement upon termination of employment ( Grantee is "Retirement-eligible") on the Date of Grant or could become Retirement-eligible during the vesting period, in the event that at a time when vesting would otherwise occur under this Section 2(a) Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of
i.e.,
absence and before January 14 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the leave commenced.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to January 14 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the leave commenced, any Phantom Stock units covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).
 
(b)           100%, if, following the occurrence of a Change in Control and before the second anniversary of such occurrence, such employment is terminated involuntarily, and not for cause, by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee in its sole discretion.
 
.              .  In consideration of the continued vesting opportunity provided under Section 2 following the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, due to Retirement, Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with such termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not (i) without the prior written consent of the Corporation, or its delegatee, become employed by, serve as a principal, partner, or member of the board of directors of, or in any similar capacity with, or otherwise provide service to, a competitor, to the detriment of the Corporation or any Subsidiary, (ii) violate any of Grantee's other noncompetition obligations, or any of Grantee's nonsolicitation or nondisclosure obligations, to the Corporation or any Subsidiary; or (iii) except as required by subpoena or other legal process (in which event the Grantee will give the Chief Legal Officer of the Corporation prompt notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit the Corporation or any affected individual to seek appropriate protective orders), publish or provide any oral or written statements about the Corporation or any Subsidiary, any of the Corporation's or any Subsidiary's current or former officers, executives, directors, employees, agents or representatives or any initiative, program or policy of the Corporation or any Subsidiary relating to any matter whatsoever that are disparaging, slanderous, libelous or defamatory, or that disclose private or confidential information about their business affairs, or that constitute an intrusion into their private lives, or that give rise to unreasonable publicity about their private lives, or that place them in a false light before the public, or that constitute a misappropriation of their name or likeness.  The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be limited in scope and shall be effective only with respect to competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and management of fiber optic communications systems; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in
Section 3
Violation of Grantee Obligation
which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas (i) any country in the world where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least US$25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including Subsidiaries; (ii) the continent of North America; (iii) the United States of America and Canada; (iv) the United States of America; (v) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Georgia, Florida, Texas, California, Massachusetts, Illinois, Michigan, New York, Colorado, Oklahoma and Louisiana; (vi) the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Colorado, Ohio, Kentucky, and Indiana; and (vii) any state or states with respect to which was conducted a business of the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, which business constituted a substantial portion of Grantee's employment.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including areas.  If any part of this provision is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or area, including deletion of specific words and phrases, i.e., "blue penciling", and in its modified, reduced or blue pencil form, such part shall become enforceable and shall be enforced.  Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee from being retained during the Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee from providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
 
.  Any Phantom Stock unit subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time the unit of Phantom Stock with respect to which the Dividend Equivalent is in tandem (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, or (ii) is forfeited.
Section 4.             
Forfeiture
 
.  Payments with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall be paid in cash to the Grantee within 60 days after the time cash dividends are declared and paid with respect to the Common Stock on or after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires, but in no event later than the calendar year in which the dividends are declared and paid.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to
Section 5.
             
Dividend Equivalent Payments
payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Any required income tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Phantom Stock units shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion, requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
 
.  Payment of Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the time such units become vested in accordance with Section 2 but in no event later than 60 days following such vesting, except to the extent deferred by Grantee in accordance with such procedures as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time or except to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent that Grantee would satisfy the definition of Retirement upon termination of employment ( Grantee is "Retirement-eligible") on the Date of Grant or could become Retirement-eligible during the vesting period, or the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Phantom Stock units otherwise constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, then notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 6, except in the event that the Grantee's employment terminates as a result of death, payment of vested Phantom Stock units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee in three equal installments, with each installment due within 60 days following the applicable Vesting Date as provided in Section 2(a), except to the extent deferred by Grantee as provided herein.  Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested unit of Phantom Stock and any fractional vested unit of Phantom Stock shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Phantom Stock units became vested, or if later, payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective unit of Phantom Stock became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.  In the event that payment, after any such reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Phantom Stock units became vested, or if later, payable.
Section 6.             
Payment of Phantom Stock Units
i.e.,
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
Section 7.
             
No Employment Rights
 
.  The Phantom Stock units and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by the Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Phantom Stock unit or Dividend Equivalent or right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
Section 8.
             
Nonalienation
 
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
Section 9.             
Determinations
 
.  The validity and construction of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Delaware applicable to transactions taking place entirely within that state.
Section 10.           
Governing Law
 
.  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect a Phantom Stock Award properly granted to Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.
Section 11.
           
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by
Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 60 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
 
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
Section 12.           
Compliance with Law
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than , has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department - Phantom Stock [(STO6E)], Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1007, Charlotte, NC 28201-1007, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
                       , 2009
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this            day of                                           , 2009.


