FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20101028080236.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2010, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Unusually warm summer weather throughout Duke Energy's service territories drove third quarter 2010 adjusted diluted earnings per share to 51 cents, compared to 40 cents for third quarter 2009.
Reported diluted EPS for the third quarter 2010 was 51 cents, compared to 8 cents for the same period last year.
As a result of the company's performance through its first three quarters, the 2010 adjusted diluted EPS guidance has been increased for the second time this year. The new guidance is $1.40 - $1.45, up from $1.30 - $1.35.
 
 
The Carolinas recorded the hottest third quarter since the company began keeping records in 1961. Temperatures also were significantly above normal in the Midwest. Third quarter results were also supported by increased pricing resulting from the base-rate increases approved in 2009 in the Carolinas. Additionally, Duke Energy continued to experience improvement in weather-normalized sales volumes to industrial customers as compared to the prior-year quarter.
These increases were partially offset by an impairment charge related to the pending settlement agreement reached in September 2010 on the cost of the Edwardsport Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) Station in Indiana. Quarterly results also continued to be adversely affected by customer switching in Ohio, which has stabilized, in line with the company's expectations.
"The key to Duke Energy's outstanding third quarter was the ability of our employees and our fleet to meet customers' energy demands during the summer's unrelenting heat," said James E. Rogers, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "While weather was a predominant factor for the quarter, we also saw signs of continued improvement in the economy as evidenced by our increased industrial sales volumes."
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported third-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $946 million, compared with $716 million in the third quarter of 2009. Results increased primarily due to record third quarter weather, favorable pricing principally caused by rate adjustments in the Carolinas, and higher Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) from Duke Energy's ongoing construction program. These results were
 
 
partially offset by a charge associated with the recent settlement agreement related to the Edwardsport project in Indiana. The settlement is still subject to Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission approval.
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported third-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $188 million, compared to a segment EBIT loss of $234 million in the third quarter 2009. Prior year quarter results were impacted by non-cash impairment charges of $413 million primarily related to goodwill associated with non-regulated generation operations.
Third quarter 2010 results were impacted by higher mark-to-market gains on economic hedges, higher energy margins and capacity revenues associated with the Midwest gas-fired generation as well as favorable weather. These results were offset by lower retail sales volumes due to competition in Ohio, net of customer acquisition efforts by our competitive retail subsidiary, and lower gains on coal sales.
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported third-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $110 million, compared to $100 million in the third quarter 2009. DEI's results for the quarter were driven primarily by higher sales prices and favorable average foreign exchange rates in Brazil. These favorable results were partially offset by unfavorable hydrology in Central America resulting in lower dispatch of DEI's thermal generation.
Other
Other includes corporate governance expenses, costs associated with the company's voluntary employee separation plan and results from Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
 
 
Other reported third-quarter 2010 net expense from continuing operations of $100 million, compared to $65 million in the third quarter 2009. The increase in net expense was due primarily to severance costs associated with the voluntary employee separation program and office consolidation that was announced in the first quarter as well as a litigation reserve.
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense was $202 million for the third quarter 2010, compared to $190 million for the third quarter 2009. The increase is primarily due to increased debt balances that are the result of financing the company's ongoing construction program.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the third quarter of 2010 was $301 million, compared to $244 million for the third quarter of 2009. The effective tax rate for full-year 2010 is forecasted to be approximately 40 percent, reflecting the effect of the second quarter 2010 goodwill impairment, which is non-deductible for tax purposes. The effective tax rate excluding the goodwill impairment charge is forecasted to be approximately 32 percent.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests.
Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests
 
 
in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company's performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation
 
 
common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's or Other's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any
 
 
amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United States. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest, representing a population of approximately 11 million people. Its commercial power and international business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: .
www.duke-energy.com
Analyst Call
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 11 a.m. ET Thursday, Oct. 28. The conference call can be accessed via the (http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/) of Duke Energy's website or by dialing 800-289-0507 in the United States or 913-312-4376 outside the United States. The confirmation code is 5050814. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, Nov. 28, 2010, by calling 888-203-1112 in the United States or 719-457-0820 outside the United States, and using the code 5050814. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's website.
investors' section
investors' section
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions.
 
 
These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," "target," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, as well as rulings that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth or decline in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories, customer base or customer usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the performance of electric generation facilities and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects;
 
 
construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 


