FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20100212144946.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 9, 2010, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2009. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1 News Release issued by Duke Energy Corporation on February 12, 2010
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy's cost control efforts and strong operational performance in 2009 resulted in full-year adjusted diluted earnings per share of $1.22, exceeding the employee incentive target of $1.20. Adjusted diluted EPS in 2008 was $1.21. Full-year reported diluted EPS was $0.83 for 2009, compared to $1.07 in 2008.
Fourth quarter 2009 adjusted diluted EPS was 28 cents, compared to 27 cents for fourth quarter 2008. Reported diluted EPS was 26 cents for both the fourth quarter 2009 and the fourth quarter 2008.
The company was able to achieve this performance in part by exceeding its target of reducing operations and maintenance costs by $150 million in 2009, while also exceeding prior-year operational performance for its generation fleet.
Industrial sales volumes adversely affected earnings during 2009, declining by approximately 14 percent year-over-year, on a weather-normalized basis. Fourth quarter 2009 industrial sales declined less than 5 percent, a pace of decline that was slower than earlier in 2009 as the economy showed signs of continued stabilization.
"Our performance in 2009 was very solid. Despite year-over-year declines in retail sales volumes, we exceeded our employee incentive target by controlling our costs and managing our operations exceptionally well," said James E. Rogers, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Although the economy has been challenging, the second half of 2009 showed signs of stabilization."
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the annual periods:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported fourth-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $548 million, compared to $532 million in the fourth quarter 2008.
USFE&G results increased due primarily to higher Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) from Duke Energy's ongoing construction program, and increased wholesale sales. Partially offsetting these increases was a decline in weather-adjusted sales, primarily to industrial customers.
Full-year 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations for USFE&G was $2,321 million, compared to $2,398 million in 2008.
 
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported fourth-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $68 million, compared to a loss of $9 million in the fourth quarter 2008. Commercial Power results increased due primarily to lower mark-to-market losses on economic hedges, non-native margin increases primarily as a result of higher coal sales, and favorable results from the Midwest gas assets. These increases were partially offset by lower retail sales volumes due to the economy and competition in Ohio. The effects of competition in Ohio were partially offset by customer acquisition efforts by our competitive retail subsidiary.
Full-year 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations for Commercial Power was $27 million, compared to $264 million in 2008. The reduction from 2008 was primarily due to third-quarter 2009 non-cash goodwill impairment charges of approximately $400 million related to non-regulated generation operations in the Midwest.
 
Duke Energy International (DEI)
Duke Energy International (DEI) reported fourth-quarter 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $104 million, consistent with the fourth quarter 2008.
 
 
DEI's results for the quarter were driven primarily by favorable average foreign exchange rates and increased earnings at National Methanol, offset by an impairment charge on our non-core equity investment in Greece.
Full-year 2009 segment EBIT from continuing operations for DEI was $365 million, compared to $411 million in 2008.
 
Other
Other includes costs associated with corporate governance, costs-to-achieve the Cinergy merger and Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
Other reported a fourth-quarter 2009 net expense from continuing operations of $58 million, compared to $108 million in the fourth quarter 2008. The improvement was the result of favorable captive insurance results, including improved investment performance, as well as lower governance costs.
Full-year 2009 net expense from continuing operations for Other was $251 million, compared to $568 million in 2008. The 2008 results were heavily affected by impairments recorded at Crescent Resources, Duke Energy's real estate joint venture, which has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
 
INTEREST EXPENSE
Fourth quarter 2009 interest expense was $191 million compared to $189 million in the fourth quarter 2008. Full-year 2009 interest expense was $751 million, compared to $741 million for 2008. The increase in interest expense for the fourth quarter and full-year 2009 was primarily due to higher debt balances, offset by lower average interest rates on floating rate debt and commercial paper balances.
 
INCOME TAX
Income tax expense from continuing operations in fourth quarter 2009 was $158 million, compared to $95 million in fourth quarter 2008. The effective tax rate was approximately 32 percent, compared to 27 percent in the fourth quarter 2008. Full-year 2009 income tax expense from continuing operations was $758 million, compared to $616 million in 2008. The effective tax rate for full-year 2009 was approximately 41 percent, compared to approximately 33 percent in 2008. The increase in the effective tax rate is primarily due to the effect of a non-deductible goodwill impairment recognized in the third quarter 2009.
 
ANALYST MEETING IN NEW YORK CITY
On Feb. 16 at 8 a.m. EST, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Jim Rogers and the Duke Energy management team will host the company's annual investor and analyst meeting in New York City. In addition to discussing the fourth quarter 2009 and year-end results, company executives will provide updates on the company's operating businesses, report on regulatory initiatives and offer the company's financial and business outlook for 2010 and beyond.
The meeting will be webcast starting at 8 a.m. EST. The live webcast can be accessed via the of Duke Energy's Web site or by dialing 785-830-1926 outside the United States or 800-533-9703 in the United States. The confirmation code is 8584201. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the analyst meeting will be available until midnight EST, Feb. 26, by calling 719-457-0820 outside the United States or 888-203-1112 in the United States, and using the code 8584201. A replay and transcript of the webcast also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
(http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/)
investors' section
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
 
 
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company's performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses (including adjusted equity earnings for Crescent Resources) as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's or Other's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is the third largest electric power holding company in the United States, based on kilowatt-hour sales. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states  North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky  representing a population of approximately 11 million people. Duke Energy's commercial power and international business segments operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "target," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements; state, federal and foreign legislation and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment recovery, or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories; additional competition in electric markets and continued
 
 
industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of hurricanes, droughts, ice storms and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from customers in a timely manner; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $5 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $5 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $34 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $76 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Extraordinary Items, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $21 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $23 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $72 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $3 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Extraordinary Items, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
E  Recorded in Equity in earnings (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
F  Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
 
 
Note 1 Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $4 million credit recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $6 million expense recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $7 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $25 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  Recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of unconsolidated affiliates within Other income and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 
 
 
Note 1  Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
A  $5 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $20 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
B  $2 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $58 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
C  Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
D  $413 million recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses and $18 million recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of unconsolidated affiliates within Other income and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
E  $30 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other, $2 million recorded as a reduction to fuel used in electric generation and purchased power  non-regulated, and $2 million as a reduction to Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
F- Recorded in Other income and expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted)  in millions
 


