FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20100216074709.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01.   Other Events.
 
On February 16, 2010, Duke Energy Corporation will host an investor and analyst meeting to discuss fourth quarter 2009 and year-end 2009 results, including a discussion of its financial and business outlook for 2010 and beyond. Additionally, the presentation will include a discussion of the Company's 2010 per share earnings outlook of $1.25 to $1.30, based upon adjusted diluted earnings.  A copy of this presentation is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
(A) - $4 million credit recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $6 million expense recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(B) - $7 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $25 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(C) - Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(D) - Recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of unconsolidated affiliates within Other income and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
* Represents the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts in the non-native portfolio, which is recognized in earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods.
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
(A) - $5 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $20 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
(B) - $2 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $58 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power-non-regulated (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(C) - Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(D)- $413 million recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses and $18 million recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of unconsolidated affiliates within Other income and expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(E) - $30 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other, $2 million recorded as a reduction to fuel used in electric generation and purchased power - non-regulated, and $2 million as a reduction to Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(F)- Recorded in Other income and expenses, net on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
* Represents the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts in the non-native portfolio, which is recognized in earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods.
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
(A) - $5 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $5 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(B) - $34 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $76 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(C) - Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(D) - Recorded in Extraordinary Items, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
* Represents the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts in the non-native portfolio, which is recognized in earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods.
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
(A) - $21 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other and $23 million recorded in Depreciation and amortization (all Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(B) - $72 million loss recorded within Non-regulated electric, natural gas, and other (Operating Revenues) and $3 million loss recorded within Fuel used in electric generation and purchased power (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(C) - Recorded in Income From Discontinued Operations, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
(D) - Recorded in Extraordinary Items, net of tax on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(E) - Recorded in Equity in earnings (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
(F)- Recorded in Goodwill and other impairment charges within Operating Expenses on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
* Represents the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts in the non-native portfolio, which is recognized in earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the econor value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS Attributable to Duke Energy Corporation provides useful information to investors, as it allows them to more accurately compare the company's performance across periods.
 
 
 
 
(a) Recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations
 
(b) 
$33 million recorded in Operation, maintenance and other (Operating Expenses) and $17 million recorded in Losses on sales and impairments of unconsolidated affiliates (Other Income and Expenses) on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.
 
 
 
(a)
        
The available liquidity balance presented is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents the aggregated presentation of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments (excluding amounts held in foreign jurisdictions), and remaining availability under the master credit facility. The most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for available liquidity is cash and cash equivalents.
 
Duke Energy Corporation
February 16, 2010 Analysts Meeting
Cash Flow Reconciliation Required by SEC Regulation G
($ in Millions)
 
 
Notes
:
 
(1)
        
The adjusted net income of $1,700 million for 2010 is an illustrative amount based on the midpoint of Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS outlook range of $1.25-$1.30 per share, which is consistent with the 2010 employee incentive earnings target. The EPS measure used for employee incentive bonuses is primarily based on adjusted diluted EPS. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment (as discussed separately under "Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS')"). The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 
(2)
        
Amount consists primarily of an adjustment for operating cash flow items included in the "Other Sources/(Uses), net" which are combined for the GAAP reconciliation in Investing activities (principally equity allowance for funds used during construction and other changes in working capital).
 
(3)
        
Amount consists primarily of an adjustment for operating cash flow items included in the "Other Sources/(Uses), net" which are combined for the GAAP reconciliation in Investing activities (principally equity allowance for funds used during construction and other changes in working capital). After reclassification of the approximate net ($260 million) of operating cash flow activity, the amount within investing activities from the "Other Sources/(Uses), net" line item primarily reflects proceeds related to planned monetization of certain long-lived assets.
 
(4)
        
Amount consists primarily of distributions to noncontrolling interests.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Duke Energy Corporation
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting
February 16, 2010
 
Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share ("EPS")
 
The materials for Duke Energy Corporation's ("Duke Energy") 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Reconciliations of adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included below.
 
2010 Adjusted Diluted EPS Outlook
 
The materials for Duke Energy's 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of the forecasted 2010 adjusted diluted EPS outlook range of $1.25-$1.30 per share.  Additionally, the materials reference the 2009 EPS incentive target of $1.20 per share. The EPS measure used for employee incentive bonuses is primarily based on adjusted diluted EPS.  The materials also reference the forecasted range of growth of 4%-6% in adjusted diluted EPS (on a compound annual growth rate ("CAGR") basis) from a base of adjusted diluted EPS for 2009 of $1.22.  Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment (as discussed separately under "Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS')"). The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP
 
 
financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 
Adjusted Segment EBIT and Other Net Expenses for 2008 and 2009 and Forecasted
Adjusted Segment EBIT and Other Net Expenses for 2010
 
The materials for Duke Energy's 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and a discussion of forecasted 2010 adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses.  Additionally, reference is made to Duke Energy's equity method investment in National Methanol Company (a component of the International Energy segment), and its equity method earnings contribution as a percentage of International Energy's segment EBIT, on an adjusted basis.
 
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses (including adjusted equity earnings for Crescent Resources) as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items.
 
Adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment (as discussed above under "Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share (EPS')"). Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's or Other's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measures for adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses are reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses, which represent segment and Other results from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Reconciliations of adjusted segment EBIT and Other net expenses for the quarters and years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included below. Additionally, reconciliations of adjusted segment EBIT for International Energy for 2007 and 2006 to reported segment EBIT are included below.  Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for 2010, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 
 
Latin American Portfolio Cash Flows
 
The materials for Duke Energy's 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of management's expectation that the Latin American portfolio of assets will have significant annual free cash flow of approximately $200 million to $300 million. These amounts represent non-GAAP financial measures. This forecast of cash generation primarily reflects expected cash to be provided by operating activities (a GAAP measure), but also reflects certain financing and investing activities. However, this forecast of cash generation specifically excludes capital and investment expenditures.
 
Ohio Customer Switching Impacts to Diluted Earnings per Share
 
The materials for Duke Energy's 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of the fact that the Midwest Generation component of the Commercial Power segment has had certain customers switch away from Duke Energy Ohio's Electric Security Plan offering to alternative electricity generation providers.  Certain of these customers have been acquired by Duke Energy Retail Sales ("DERS").  DERS operates as Duke Energy's competitive retail arm in Ohio.  DERS revenue pricing is generally significantly lower than the revenue pricing under the Electric Security Plan.  As of December 31, 2009, approximately 40% of Electric Security Plan customer load has switched to alternative energy providers, and approximately 60% of that switched customer load has been acquired by DERS, for a net switching percentage of approximately 15%.  For 2010, Duke Energy forecasts that approximately 45% of customers in Duke Energy Ohio's Electric Security Plan territory will have switched to alternative energy providers, and after consideration of customers forecasted to be acquired by DERS, the net switching percentage is estimated to be approximately 25% in 2010.  This document references the estimated diluted earnings per share impact of net customer switching to be approximately $0.02 per share in 2009, and that such negative impact will be an incremental $0.04 - $0.07 per share in 2010.  The estimate of the diluted earnings per share impact of net customer switching is primarily calculated by first multiplying lost Electric Security Plan volume in megawatt-hours (MWh) by the difference between the average Electric Security Plan operating revenue amount per MWh less the average expense per MWh for fuel used in electric generation and purchased power ("Electric Security Plan lost margin").   This Electric Security Plan lost margin amount is then offset by the average gross margin (calculated in a similar manner as described above) earned on additional wholesale market sales forecasted as a result of less generation being dedicated to Electric Security Plan customers.  Additionally, Electric Security Plan lost gross margin is further offset by DERS gross margin (operating revenues less purchased power costs).  DERS gross margin is primarily derived from contracts related to customer load acquired that were historically supplied under the Electric Security Plan offering.  The net of these amounts is then tax affected at an approximate 35% tax rate and divided by weighted-average diluted shares outstanding to determine the estimated impact of customer switching to diluted earnings per share.   This calculated estimate of the earnings per share impact of customers switching is meant to approximate the entire impact to diluted earnings per share; however, given the potential indirect effects of customer switching to items such as operation, maintenance and other expenses, management is unable to calculate the exact impact of customer switching to diluted earnings per share.
 
The impacts of customer switching in 2009 are embedded within the 2009 reported and adjusted diluted earnings per share amounts discussed in the section entitled "Adjusted Diluted Earnings per Share ("EPS")."  The forecasted impacts of customer switching in 2010 are embedded within the 2010 adjusted diluted EPS outlook range of $1.25-$1.30 per share, discussed in the section entitled "2010 Adjusted Diluted EPS Outlook."
 
 
Cash-on-Cash Returns for Certain Renewables Projects
 
The materials for Duke Energy's 2010 Investor and Analyst Meeting presentation on February 16, 2010 include a discussion of Duke Energy's estimate that Renewables projects recently constructed or in the process of construction will earn on average 20%-30% annual cash-on-cash returns over the first five years of operation.  The numerator in each annual period in the cash-on-cash returns calculation represents cash flows from operations including production tax credits, if applicable, and tax cash benefits associated with accelerated tax depreciation, including the initial tax basis amount greater than the corresponding book basis amount for projects that have received the investment tax credit ("ITC") and/or government grant for qualifying renewable energy facilities.  Additionally, the numerator in the cash-on-cash returns calculation includes the ITC and/or government grant received when the project is initially placed in service, if applicable.  ITC and government grant receipts are classified within cash flows from investing activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows.  In summary, the numerator includes all cash inflows and outflows associated with the Renewables projects, except for interest on debt balances that may be associated with Renewables projects.  The denominator in the first year of the cash-on-cash returns calculation represents total project capital expenditures.  The denominator in each subsequent year of the cash-on-cash returns calculation is reduced by the numerator in the preceding year (i.e., the denominator generally equals cumulative capital expenditures less cumulative net cash inflows).  Forecasted annual cash flows in the calculation are not adjusted for the time value of money.
 


