FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20100504071804.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2010, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2010. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 4, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today announced first quarter 2010 adjusted diluted EPS of 36 cents, compared to 28 cents for first quarter 2009. Reported diluted EPS for the first quarter 2010 was 34 cents, compared to 27 cents for the same period last year.
The quarter's results were impacted by favorable weather, as temperatures were below normal in the Midwest, and February in the Carolinas was one of the coldest on record. The company also saw an increase in weather-normalized retail sales volumes, in particular in the industrial sector, as well as increased pricing.
"I'm very pleased with our first quarter performance," said James E. Rogers, chairman,
president and chief executive officer. "We are seeing signs of economic stabilization, but we are mindful of the high levels of unemployment that still exist in our service territories.
"Although our first quarter was strong, we will continue to carefully manage expenses, focus on operational excellence, and work to achieve favorable regulatory and legislative policies," he added.
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported first-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $744 million, compared with $557 million in the first quarter of 2009. Results increased primarily due to favorable pricing, favorable weather in all jurisdictions, increased retail sales volumes, primarily to industrial customers, and higher Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC) from Duke Energy's ongoing construction program.
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported first-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $129 million, compared to $114 million in the first quarter 2009. Results were affected by increased mark-to-market gains on economic hedges, favorable operation and maintenance costs due to the prior-year timing of plant outages, and favorable results from the Midwest gas assets.
These increases were partially offset by lower retail sales volumes due to competition in Ohio, the effects of which were partially offset by customer acquisition efforts by our competitive retail subsidiary.
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported first-quarter 2010 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $140 million, compared to $93 million in the first quarter 2009. DEI's results were driven primarily by favorable pricing at National Methanol and favorable average foreign exchange rates.
Other
Other includes costs associated with corporate governance, costs-to-achieve the Cinergy merger and Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
 
Other reported a first-quarter 2010 net expense from continuing operations of $146 million, compared to $90 million in the first quarter 2009. The increase in net expense was due primarily to severance costs associated with the voluntary employee separation program and office consolidation, and a donation to the Duke Energy Foundation. Partially offsetting this increase was a prior-year charge related to Crescent, Duke Energy's real estate joint venture, which filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in June 2009.
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense was $210 million for the first quarter 2010, compared to $184 million for the first quarter 2009. The increase is primarily due to higher debt balances.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2010 was $226 million, compared to $179 million for the first quarter of 2009. The effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 34 percent, consistent with the same period last year. First-quarter 2010 income tax expense includes a $17 million charge due to a change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy resulting from passage of health care reform legislation. The anticipated effective tax rate for 2010 is 31 percent, excluding the impact of the tax charge due to the health care reform legislation.
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests.
 
Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company's
 
performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses.
The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses (including adjusted equity earnings for Crescent Resources) as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's or Other's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses and any
 
related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is the third largest electric power holding company in the United States, based on kilowatt-hour sales. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states  North Carolina, South Carolina, Indiana, Ohio and Kentucky  representing a population of approximately 11 million people. Duke Energy's commercial power and international business segments operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
Analyst Call
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 11 a.m. ET Tuesday, May 4. The conference call can be accessed via the (http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/) of Duke Energy's Web site or by dialing 913-312-4376 outside the United States or 800-289-0508 in the United States. The confirmation code is 5050814. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, June 4, 2010, by calling 719-457-0820 outside the United States or 888-203-1112 in the United States, and using the code 5050814. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's Web site.
investors' section
investors' section
 
Forward-looking statement
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions. These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "target," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, as well as ratings that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth or decline in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories customer base or customer usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornadoes; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of credit worthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce
 
factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; the performance of electric generation and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 


