FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20100528152228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
o
o
o
 
 
 
ITEM 8.01. OTHER EVENTS
On May 24, 2010, the registrant issued a press release announcing that it had entered into a Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of May 21, 2010, among its subsidiaries Green Frontier Windpower, LLC, Green Frontier Windpower Holdings, LLC, five other of the registrant's subsidiaries each owning wind energy projects described in the press release, the lenders party thereto, Crdit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, BBVA Securities Inc., Banco Santander, S.A., New York Branch, CoBank, ACB, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, LTD., New York Branch, as Joint Lead Arrangers, Crdit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank as Left Lead Bookrunner, Crdit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank, as the Administrative Agent, Collateral Agent and Issuing Bank and the other issuing banks and arrangers party thereto. The agreement documents a 15-year term loan of approximately $325 million and letters of credit totaling approximately $50 million, as further described in the press release.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     
Exhibits.
     99.1      Press Release, dated May 24, 2010, issued by the registrant.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
Duke Energy Corporation P.O. Box 1009 Charlotte, NC 28201-1009
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy is leveraging its interests in five of its commercial wind farms to finance continued investments in renewable power.
Duke Energy Generation Services (DEGS), a Duke Energy Commercial Businesses unit that owns and develops renewable power assets, financed a portfolio of wind farms through an affiliate, Green Frontier Windpower Holdings LLC, that includes:
"The high level of interest by the investment community in financing this portfolio of
www.duke-energy.com
 
projects speaks to the quality of our renewable energy assets, the long-term power purchase agreements we have in place with wholesale electricity buyers, and our proficiency at operating utility-scale wind farms," said DEGS President Wouter van Kempen.
The Green Frontier projects are fully contracted with creditworthy counterparties and for terms of at least 20 years.
Green Frontier has secured a 15-year term loan of approximately $325 million and letters of credit totaling roughly $50 million. The financing was arranged by Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank, along with Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, Banco Santander, Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi, CoBank, N.A. and Lloyds TSB.
"The bank market has demonstrated an appetite to finance quality wind projects with strong sponsorship, despite recent credit market challenges," said Duke Energy Senior Vice President and Treasurer Stephen De May. "This represents a diversified source of funding for Duke Energy, and we are pleased to close this transaction with our banking partners. We'll continue to seek opportunities to finance the build-out of our growing renewable power business."
Duke Energy owns and operates 735 MW of commercial wind power generation at seven U.S. sites. With the addition of two projects currently under construction, the company will have nearly 1,000 MW of wind power generation in operation by the end of 2010. In total, Duke Energy has committed more than $1 billion since 2007 to build its wind power business.
Photographs of Duke Energy's Happy Jack and Campbell Hill wind farms are available at www.flickr.com/photos/dukeenergy/
www.duke-energy.com
 
Duke Energy Generation Services, part of Duke Energy's Commercial Businesses, is a leader in developing innovative renewable energy solutions, including wind, solar and biopower projects. DEGS builds, owns and operates electric generation for large energy consumers, municipalities, utilities and industrial facilities. DEGS is also working to build commercial transmission capacity to help the U.S. meet its energy needs of the future.
Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com. To learn more and contribute to the discussion about the energy issues of today and the possibilities of tomorrow, visit .
www.sheddingalight.org
www.duke-energy.com


