FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20100917163216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.06.  Material Impairments.
 
Duke Energy Indiana, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it has reached a settlement agreement with the Indiana Office of Utility Consumer Counselor, Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel on the cost increase for construction of its Edwardsport clean coal gasification plant.  The Company has agreed to accept a 150 basis point reduction in the equity return for any project construction costs greater than $2.35 billion, and accordingly expects to record a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $35 to $45 million in the third quarter of 2010 based on the project cost estimate of $2.88 billion.  The parties also agreed to cap the project's construction costs passed on to customers at $2.975 billion.  The settlement agreement is subject to approval by the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission and therefore the ultimate amount of any charges is subject to change.
 
The settlement term sheet and a detailed summary of the agreement are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                              
Exhibits.
 
99.1
                          
Settlement Term Sheet
 
99.2
                          
Summary of Edwardsport IGCC Project Settlement Agreement
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
1.
             
Base Rate Case Moratorium:
 
Duke Energy Indiana will not file a petition for a retail electric base rate case before March 1, 2012.
 
2.
             
Deferred Taxes:
 
Duke Energy Indiana will include, consistent with traditional Indiana ratemaking, deferred taxes in the capital structure used in Standard Contract Rider No. 61 ("IGCC Rider")  prospectively beginning with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission ("Commission") Order in Cause No. 43114 IGCC-5 (if possible within procedural schedule) or IGCC-6.  Duke Energy Indiana estimates this will reduce the IGCC Rider costs by approximately $25 million annually in the near term.
 
3.
             
Depreciation Rates
:
 
Duke Energy Indiana agrees to update its depreciation rates for production, transmission, distribution and general plant and equipment.  The Settling Parties agree not to challenge the new depreciation rates including the negative net salvage values.  The approximately $35 million annual credit to retail customers for these depreciation rate changes will be flowed through the IGCC Rider.  Duke Energy Indiana agrees that it will file the full depreciation study used to develop the depreciation factors reflected in this Settlement Agreement in its next retail electric base rate case, and will seek continued Commission approval of such factors; provided, however, that the Company shall have the right to propose updates to these depreciation factors and its depreciation study for any material changes in law, regulation, or accounting rules, or material changes to the Duke Energy Indiana system.  All Settling Parties may present evidence regarding appropriate depreciation rates in such Duke Energy Indiana retail electric base rate case, and may challenge any updates proposed by the Duke Energy Indiana.  Duke Energy Indiana reserves the right to file new depreciation rates for any retail electric base rate case subsequent to its next retail electric base rate case.
 
4.
             
IGCC Project Cost Recovery and Return on Equity:
 
a.
              
Duke Energy Indiana accepts a hard cap of $2.975 billion on the construction cost of the Edwardsport Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle Project ("IGCC Project")(1) , meaning there will be no cost recovery from retail electric customers for the IGCC Project construction costs above the hard cap.  The hard cap can only be increased due to (1) force
 
(1)  The hard cap applies to the construction costs of the IGCC Project.  "Construction costs" means the costs of construction of the IGCC Project including start-up and testing costs (or necessary costs identified in start-up and testing) and does not include, for example, subsequent ongoing capital spent on the IGCC Project for normal capitalized repairs or maintenance expenditures or additional plant and equipment necessary for the continued operation of the IGCC Project, nor does the cap apply to orders of the Commission approving cost recovery related to carbon capture and storage (including study costs) involving the IGCC Project.
 
majeure events(2) and (2) increases in AFUDC in excess of the $160 million of AFUDC included in the $2.88 billion IGCC Project cost estimate filed in Duke Energy Indiana's case-in-chief in this proceeding, if such increases are outside of Duke Energy Indiana's control.  The $160 million of AFUDC assumed (for purposes of computation) Commission approval to include additional CWIP amounts in retail electric rates within six months after the IGCC Rider CWIP cutoff dates.
 
b.
             
Duke Energy Indiana accepts a soft cap of $2.76 billion.  The IGCC Rider will continue based on six-month update proceedings for amounts up to the hard cap limit and will continue in place collecting CWIP at the hard cap level until a Commission order is issued in a subsequent Duke Energy Indiana retail electric base rate case.  However, all IGCC Project costs in excess of $2.76 billion are subject to a prudency review in Duke Energy Indiana's next retail electric base rate case and shall be recovered through the IGCC Rider subject to refund.  IGCC Project costs at or below $2.76 billion are only subject to disallowance based on the standard for disallowance in the CPCN statute applicable to costs at or below an IURC approved cost estimate. (3)  The soft cap can only be increased by the AFUDC increases identified in section 4.a. above.
 
c.
              
Duke Energy Indiana accepts a 150 basis point reduction in its then applicable authorized return on equity on IGCC Project construction costs above $2.35 billion for the life of asset, subject to the limitations in footnote 1.  Duke Energy Indiana will not attempt to recover the economic effect of this 150 basis point compromise through subsequent rate actions.
 
5.
             
Commercial Value/Benefits:
 
Retail electric customers will receive the retail jurisdictional share of any net funding (federal, state or otherwise) received for the IGCC Project.
 
Retail electric customers will receive the retail jurisdictional share of any net by-product or co-product revenues from the IGCC Project.
 
Duke Energy Indiana shall retain any intellectual property commercial benefits related to the IGCC Project.
 
(2)  The hard cap may be increased due to an increase in construction costs for the IGCC Project due to a force majeure event beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of Duke Energy Indiana or its suppliers or contractors involved in the Project, such as, by way of example, the following: acts of God, the public enemy, or any governmental or military entity.
 
(3)  See Ind. Code 8-1-8.5-6.5.  . Approval of the settlement agreement shall be deemed to be approval of $2.76 billion as the revised, Commission approved cost estimate for the IGCC Project, subject to increase and the other provisions of paragraph 4.b.
6.
             
Vendor Payments /Claims:
 
Retail electric customers will receive 60% of the retail jurisdictional share of any net amounts received from Bechtel, General Electric or other vendors associated with the design, construction and start-up and testing of the IGCC Project through agreement with such party or through litigation pursued by Duke Energy Indiana or any affiliate following completion of the IGCC Project.   Duke Energy Indiana shall retain the remainder of any such recoveries.
 
7.
             
Miscellaneous:
 
Parties agree that any subject to refund designations or similar language in Cause No. 43114-IGCC-4 and any subsequent IGCC Rider proceedings approved prior to the order approved in this docket will be removed when this settlement is approved.
 
Duke Energy Indiana will agree to pay certain reasonable, cost-based attorneys' fees and expenses to the Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group, in an amount to be negotiated.

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
Overview
 
On April 16, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana filed the latest cost estimate update for the Edwardsport IGCC power plant with the Indiana Utility Regulatory Commission (IURC)
                 
Estimated project costs of $2.88 billion (a cost increase of $530 million from previous approved cost of $2.35 billion)
                 
Increase primarily the result of increases to project scope and design evolution
 
On September 17, 2010, Duke Energy Indiana announced it has reached an agreement with key parties on how the cost increase should be addressed for ratemaking purposes
                 
In addition to Duke Energy Indiana, parties to the settlement include the Indiana Consumer Counselor (Indiana's representative of utility customers), the Duke Energy Indiana Industrial Group and Nucor Steel
 
                 
Agreement is subject to the approval of the IURC
 
Key Components of the Agreement
 
                 
Cap the level of project costs to be passed on to customers at $2.975 billion (hard cap)
                 
Any costs expended above this amount would be disallowed from rate recovery, except for force majeure events and increases in AFUDC above $160 million if such increases are outside of Duke's control
 
                 
Increase authorized cost estimate from $2.35 billion to $2.76 billion (soft cap)
                 
Amounts spent in excess of the $2.76 billion and up to the hard cap of $2.975 are recoverable subject to a prudence review in the next general base rate increase request
 
                 
CWIP rider cash recovery continues up to $2.975 billion
                 
However, amounts collected for expenditures above the soft cap are subject to refund if any imprudence is demonstrated in a base rate increase request
 
                 
Customer rate mitigation
                 
Agreement lowers the plant's customer rate increase (from a base of 2009) from an overall average 19 percent to 16 percent in 2013, the first full year after the plant is in service
                 
150 basis point reduction in its then applicable authorized return on equity (ROE) for amounts in excess of the most recent approved cost of $2.35 billion, resulting in a pre-tax charge to earnings of approximately $35 to $45 million in the third quarter 2010
                 
Reduces ROE from 10.5% to 9.0% on spend between $2.35 billion and $2.975 billion
                 
A reduction in depreciation expense charged to customers  estimated annual pretax impact of approximately $35 million (no earnings impact)
                 
Waiver of a commission-approved incentive related to deferred incomes taxes and capital structure  estimated annual pretax impact of approximately $25 million
                 
Duke Energy Indiana agrees to not file for a general electric base rate increase before March 1, 2012
Estimated Financial Impact Summary of Agreement
 
 
Project Status (as of August 31, 2010)
 
                 
618 MW IGCC facility
                 
In-service date of August 2012
                 
Total project is more than 70% complete
                 
Final engineering is over 90% complete
                 
Committed costs of over $2 billion
                 
Project has been awarded local, state and federal tax incentives totaling more than $460 million
 
Project Benefits
 
                 
Produce 10 times as much power as the existing plant at Edwardsport, yet with significantly less environmental emissions
                 
Become the first major new power plant built in Indiana in more than 20 years
                 
Generate marketable byproducts, such as sulfur and slag (benefits of byproduct sales to reduce customer bill impacts)
                 
Use less than one-tenth the amount of water per day compared to the current plant when it's operating
                 
Replace 60-plus-year-old power-generating units with state-of-the art efficiency
                 
Job creation, as this is one of the largest construction projects ever undertaken in Indiana
 
Procedural Schedule (Next Steps)
 


