FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20110503073645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 3, 2011, Duke Energy Corporation issued a news release announcing its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011. A copy of this news release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. The information in Exhibit 99.1 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 3, 2011
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 
CHARLOTTE, N.C.  Duke Energy today announced first quarter 2011 adjusted diluted EPS of 39 cents, compared to 36 cents for first quarter 2010, and reported diluted EPS of 38 cents, compared to 34 cents for the same period last year.
Earnings at the company's regulated utilities were slightly lower for the quarter. U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas experienced higher earnings resulting from the company's power plant investments and modernization program but, as expected, this was offset by less favorable weather and higher operation and maintenance costs. Strong results from Duke Energy International and reduced corporate costs contributed to the increase in adjusted diluted EPS.
"We built a solid foundation in the first quarter for another successful year," said James
 
E. Rogers, chairman, president and chief executive officer. "A continued focus on operational excellence as we execute our business plan will help us achieve our 2011 earnings guidance range of $1.35 to $1.40 per share.
"Additionally, we made initial regulatory filings related to the merger with Progress Energy and continue to target a closing date by the end of 2011," he said.
Mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment and special items affecting Duke Energy's adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters include:
 
Reconciliation of reported to adjusted diluted EPS for the quarters:
 
 
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS (ON A REPORTED BASIS)
U.S. Franchised Electric and Gas (USFE&G)
USFE&G reported first-quarter 2011 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $712 million, compared with $744 million in the first quarter of 2010. Results decreased primarily due to less favorable weather in 2011 than 2010, and increases in operation and maintenance costs, most of which were expected. These decreases were partially offset by revenue increases associated with the modernization programs in the Carolinas and in Indiana.
Commercial Power
Commercial Power reported first-quarter 2011 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $91 million, compared to $129 million in the first quarter of 2010. Results reflect the effects of 2010 customer switching in Ohio and lower mark-to-market impacts from economic hedges. These were partially offset by favorable results from the Midwest gas assets due to higher volumes and capacity prices.
Duke Energy International (DEI)
DEI reported first-quarter 2011 segment EBIT from continuing operations of $180 million, compared to $140 million in the first quarter of 2010. DEI's results were driven primarily by a favorable arbitration award in Peru, higher average contract prices in Brazil and favorable average foreign exchange rates.
Other
Other includes corporate governance expenses, costs associated with the company's 2010 voluntary employee separation plan, costs-to-achieve the merger with Progress Energy and results from Duke Energy's captive insurance company.
Other reported a first-quarter 2011 net expense from continuing operations of $45 million, compared to $146 million in the first quarter of 2010. The decrease in net
 
expense was due primarily to prior year severance costs associated with the voluntary employee separation program and office consolidation, a prior year donation to the Duke Energy Foundation and lower corporate governance costs.
INTEREST EXPENSE
Interest expense was $219 million for the first quarter 2011, compared to $210 million for the first quarter 2010. The increase was primarily due to higher debt balances that were the result of financing the company's ongoing construction program.
INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income tax expense from continuing operations for the first quarter of 2011 was $233 million, compared to $226 million for the first quarter of 2010. The effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 31 percent as compared to 34 percent in the prior year.
First-quarter 2010 income tax expense included a $17 million charge due to a change in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy that was part of health care reform legislation passed last year. The anticipated effective tax rate for 2011 is approximately 32 percent.
ANALYST CONFERENCE CALL
An earnings conference call for analysts is scheduled for 11 a.m. ET Tuesday, May 3. The conference call can be accessed via the (http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/) of Duke Energy's website or by dialing 800-756-4697 in the United States or 913-312-0957 outside the United States. The confirmation code is 8126176. Please call in 10 to 15 minutes prior to the scheduled start time. A replay of the conference call will be available until midnight ET, May 13, 2011, by calling 888-203-1112 in the United States or 719-457-0820 outside the United States and using the code 8126176. A replay and transcript also will be available by accessing the of the company's website.
investors' section
investors' section
 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests.
Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures. Duke Energy's management uses adjusted diluted EPS, which is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, as a measure to evaluate operations of the company.
Special items represent certain charges and credits, which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g. coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the
 
impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted diluted EPS provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of the company's performance across periods. Adjusted diluted EPS is also used as a basis for employee incentive bonuses. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of adjusted diluted EPS for future periods, information to reconcile such non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment for future periods.
Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment and Other performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items. Adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses are non-GAAP financial measures, as they represent reported segment EBIT and Other net expenses adjusted for special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT and adjusted Other net expenses provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's or Other's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses is reported segment EBIT or Other net expenses, which represents segment EBIT and Other net expenses from
 
continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of any forecasted adjusted segment EBIT or adjusted Other net expenses and any related growth rates for future periods, information to reconcile these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures is not available at this time, as the company is unable to forecast special items, the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment, or any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items for future periods.
Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United States. Its regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest, representing a population of approximately 12 million people. Its commercial power and international business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: .
www.duke-energy.com
Forward-Looking Information
This release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions.
These forward-looking statements are identified by terms and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "intend," "estimate," "expect," "continue," "should," "could," "may," "plan," "project," "predict," "will," "potential," "forecast," "target," and similar expressions. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that may cause
 
actual results to be materially different from the results predicted. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated in any forward-looking statement include, but are not limited to: State, federal and foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives, including costs of compliance with existing and future environmental requirements, as well as rulings that affect cost and investment recovery or have an impact on rate structures; costs and effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements, investigations and claims; industrial, commercial and residential growth or decline in Duke Energy Corporation's (Duke Energy) service territories, customer base or customer usage patterns; additional competition in electric markets and continued industry consolidation; political and regulatory uncertainty in other countries in which Duke Energy conducts business; the influence of weather and other natural phenomena on Duke Energy operations, including the economic, operational and other effects of storms, hurricanes, droughts and tornadoes; the impact on the Duke Energy's facilities and business from a terrorist attack; the inherent risks associated with the operation and potential construction of nuclear facilities, including environmental, health, safety, regulatory and financial risks; the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates; unscheduled generation outages, unusual maintenance or repairs and electric transmission system constraints; the performance of electric generation facilities and of projects undertaken by Duke Energy's non-regulated businesses; the results of financing efforts, including Duke Energy's ability to obtain financing on favorable terms, which can be affected by various factors, including Duke Energy's credit ratings and general economic conditions; declines in the market prices of equity securities and resultant cash funding requirements for Duke Energy's defined benefit pension plans; the level of creditworthiness of counterparties to Duke Energy's transactions; employee workforce factors, including the potential inability to attract and retain key personnel; growth in opportunities for Duke Energy's business units, including the timing and success of efforts to develop domestic and international power and other projects; construction and development risks associated with the completion of Duke Energy's
 
capital investment projects in existing and new generation facilities, including risks related to financing, obtaining and complying with terms of permits, meeting construction budgets and schedules, and satisfying operating and environmental performance standards, as well as the ability to recover costs from ratepayers in a timely manner or at all; the effect of accounting pronouncements issued periodically by accounting standard-setting bodies; the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed merger with Progress Energy, Inc. (Progress Energy), including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory approvals of the proposed merger that could reduce anticipated benefits or cause the parties to abandon the merger, the diversion of management's time and attention from Duke Energy's ongoing business during this time period, the ability to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers as well as the ability to successfully integrate the businesses and realize cost savings and any other synergies and the risk that the credit ratings of the combined company or its subsidiaries may be different from what the companies expect; the risk that the proposed merger with Progress Energy is terminated prior to completion and results in significant transaction costs to Duke Energy; and the ability to successfully complete merger, acquisition or divestiture plans.
These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, are more fully discussed in the preliminary joint proxy statement/prospectus that is included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that was filed by Duke Energy with the SEC on March 17, 2011 in connection with the merger as well as in any amendments to that Registration Statement filed after that date. Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Progress Energy's and Duke Energy's reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website at .
www.sec.gov
In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events described in the
 
forward-looking statements might not occur or might occur to a different extent or at a different time than Duke Energy has described. Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 
 
Note 1 - Amounts for special items are presented net of any related noncontrolling interest.
 
Weighted Average Shares (reported and adjusted) - in millions
 
 
 


