FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20111109171047.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
The unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 of Duke Energy Corporation are included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 2011 filed on November 8, 2011. The unaudited consolidated financial statements as of and for the quarter ended September 30, 2011 of Progress Energy, Inc. are included in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the Quarter ended September 30, 2011 filed on November 8, 2011, and such unaudited consolidated financial statements are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010 was previously included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (the "Form S-4") of Duke Energy Corporation filed on March 17, 2011 and amended on April 8, 2011, April 25, 2011, May 13, 2011, June 20, 2011 and declared effective by the SEC on July 7, 2011. Unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2. Throughout Exhibit 99.2, references to "this document" or any Notes shall be references to the Form S-4 and the Notes therein.
 
The information exhibits are filed herewith.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS of INCOME
 
See Notes to Progress Energy, Inc. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Interim Financial Statements.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY, INC.
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
See Notes to Progress Energy, Inc. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Interim Financial Statements.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY, INC.
UNAUDITED CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS of CASH FLOWS
 
See Notes to Progress Energy, Inc. Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Interim Financial Statements.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY, INC.
CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY d/b/a/ PROGRESS ENERGY CAROLINAS, INC.
FLORIDA POWER CORPORATION d/b/a PROGRESS ENERGY FLORIDA, INC.
COMBINED NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED INTERIM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
INDEX TO APPLICABLE COMBINED NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED INTERIM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BY REGISTRANT
Each of the following combined notes to the unaudited condensed interim financial statements of the Progress Registrants are applicable to Progress Energy, Inc. but not to each of PEC and PEF. The following table sets forth which notes are applicable to each of PEC and PEF. The notes that are not listed below for PEC or PEF are not, and shall not be deemed to be, part of PEC's or PEF's financial statements contained herein.
 
 
PROGRESS ENERGY, INC.
CAROLINA POWER & LIGHT COMPANY d/b/a PROGRESS ENERGY CAROLINAS, INC.
FLORIDA POWER CORPORATION d/b/a PROGRESS ENERGY FLORIDA, INC.
COMBINED NOTES TO UNAUDITED CONDENSED INTERIM FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
 
In this report, Progress Energy, which includes Progress Energy, Inc. holding company (the Parent) and its regulated and nonregulated subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, is at times referred to as "we," "us" or "our." When discussing Progress Energy's financial information, it necessarily includes the results of Carolina Power & Light Company d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc. (PEC) and Florida Power Corporation d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc. (PEF) (collectively, the Utilities). The term "Progress Registrants" refers to each of the three separate registrants: Progress Energy, PEC and PEF. The information in these combined notes relates to each of the Progress Registrants as noted in the Index to Applicable Combined Notes to Unaudited Condensed Interim Financial Statements by Registrant. However, neither of the Utilities makes any representation as to information related solely to Progress Energy or the subsidiaries of Progress Energy other than itself.
PROGRESS ENERGY
The Parent is a holding company headquartered in Raleigh, N.C., subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC).
Our reportable segments are PEC and PEF, both of which are primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity. The Corporate and Other segment primarily includes amounts applicable to the activities of the Parent and Progress Energy Service Company, LLC (PESC) and other miscellaneous nonregulated businesses (Corporate and Other) that do not separately meet the quantitative disclosure requirements as a reportable business segment. See Note 13 for further information about our segments.
PEC
PEC is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina. PEC's subsidiaries are involved in insignificant nonregulated business activities. PEC is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the North Carolina Utilities Commission (NCUC), Public Service Commission of South Carolina (SCPSC), the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the FERC.
PEF
PEF is a regulated public utility primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in west central Florida. PEF is subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Florida Public Service Commission (FPSC), the NRC and the FERC.
 
These financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) for interim financial information and with the instructions to Form 10-Q and Regulation S-X. Accordingly, they do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements. The December 31, 2010 condensed balance sheet data was derived from audited financial statements but does not include all disclosures required by GAAP. Because the accompanying interim financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by GAAP for annual financial statements, they should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and notes thereto included in the Progress Registrants' annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (2010 Form 10-K).
 
The amounts included in these financial statements are unaudited but, in the opinion of management, reflect all adjustments necessary to fairly present the Progress Registrants' financial position and results of operations for the interim periods. Unless otherwise noted, all adjustments are normal and recurring in nature. Due to seasonal weather variations, the impact of regulatory orders received, and the timing of outages of electric generating units, especially nuclear-fueled units, the results of operations for interim periods are not necessarily indicative of amounts expected for the entire year or future periods.
In preparing financial statements that conform to GAAP, management must make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
Certain amounts for 2010 have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.
The Utilities collect from customers certain excise taxes levied by the state or local government upon the customers. The Utilities account for sales and use tax on a net basis and gross receipts tax, franchise taxes and other excise taxes on a gross basis.
The amount of gross receipts tax, franchise taxes and other excise taxes included in operating revenues and taxes other than on income in the Statements of Income were as follows:
 
 
We consolidate all voting interest entities in which we own a majority voting interest and all variable interest entities (VIEs) for which we are the primary beneficiary. We determine whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE through a qualitative analysis that identifies which variable interest holder has the controlling financial interest in the VIE. The variable interest holder who has both of the following has the controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary: (1) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and (2) the obligation to absorb losses of, or the right to receive benefits from, the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. In performing our analysis, we consider all relevant facts and circumstances, including: the design and activities of the VIE, the terms of the contracts the VIE has entered into, the nature of the VIE's variable interests issued and how they were negotiated with or marketed to potential investors, and which parties participated significantly in the design or redesign of the entity.
PROGRESS ENERGY
Progress Energy, through its subsidiary PEC, is the primary beneficiary of, and consolidates an entity that qualifies for rehabilitation tax credits under Section 47 of the Internal Revenue Code. Our variable interests are debt and equity investments in the VIE. There were no changes to our assessment of the primary beneficiary during 2010 or for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. No financial or other support has been provided to the VIE during the periods presented.
 
The following table sets forth the carrying amount and classification of our investment in the VIE as reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets:
 
The assets of the VIE are collateral for, and can only be used to settle, its obligations. The creditors of the VIE do not have recourse to our general credit or the general credit of PEC, and there are no other arrangements that could expose us to losses.
Progress Energy, through its subsidiary PEC, is the primary beneficiary of two VIEs that were established to lease buildings to PEC under capital lease agreements. Our maximum exposure to loss from these leases is a $7.5 million mandatory fixed price purchase option for one of the buildings. Total lease payments to these counterparties under the lease agreements were $1 million and $2 million for each of the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. We have requested the necessary information to consolidate these entities; both entities from which the necessary financial information was requested declined to provide the information to us, and, accordingly, we have applied the information scope exception provided by GAAP to the entities. We believe the effect of consolidating the entities would have an insignificant impact on our common stock equity, net earnings or cash flows. However, because we have not received any financial information from the counterparties, the impact cannot be determined at this time.
PEC
See discussion of PEC's variable interests within the Progress Energy section.
PEF
PEF has no significant variable interests in VIEs.
 
On January 8, 2011, Duke Energy Corporation (Duke Energy) and Progress Energy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement). Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, Progress Energy will be acquired by Duke Energy in a stock-for-stock transaction (the Merger) and continue as a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy.
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Progress Energy common stock will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock. Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to, one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to, 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock. The board of directors of Duke Energy approved a reverse stock split, at a ratio of 1-for-3, subject to completion of the Merger. Accordingly, the adjusted exchange ratio is expected to be 0.87083 of a share of Duke Energy common stock, options and equity awards for each Progress Energy common share, option and equity award.
Consummation of the Merger is subject to customary conditions, including, among others things, approval of the shareholders of each company, expiration or termination of the applicable Hart-Scott-Rodino Act waiting period, and receipt of approvals, to the extent required, from the FERC, the Federal Communications Commission, the NRC, the NCUC, the Kentucky Public Service Commission and the SCPSC. Although there are no merger-specific regulatory approvals required in Indiana, Ohio or Florida, the companies will continue to update the public service commissions in those states on the Merger, as applicable and as required. The status of these matters is as follows, and we cannot predict the outcome of pending approvals:
 
Shareholder Approval
 
Federal Regulatory Approvals
 
 
 
 
 
State Regulatory Approvals
 
 
 
 
Certain Progress Energy shareholders have filed class action lawsuits in the state and federal courts in North Carolina against Progress Energy and each of the members of Progress Energy's board of directors (See Note 15C).
In connection with the Merger, we established an employee retention plan for certain eligible employees. Payments under the plan are contingent upon the consummation of the Merger and the employees' continued employment through a specified time period following the Merger. These payments will be recorded as compensation expense following consummation of the Merger. We estimate the costs of the retention plan to be $14 million.
In connection with the Merger, we announced plans to offer a voluntary severance plan (VSP) to certain eligible employees. Payments under the plan are contingent upon the consummation of the Merger. The window for eligible employees to request a voluntary end to their employment under the VSP opened on November 7, 2011, and will close on November 30, 2011. If the employee is not required to work for a significant period after the consummation of the Merger, the costs of any benefits paid under the VSP will be measured and recorded upon consummation of the Merger. If a significant retention period exists, the costs of any benefits paid under the VSP will be recorded ratably over the remaining service periods of the affected employees.
In addition, we evaluated our business needs for office space after the Merger and formulated an exit plan to vacate one of our corporate headquarters buildings. Under the plan, we will gradually vacate the premises beginning in the fourth quarter of 2011 through January 1, 2013. The estimated exit cost liability associated with this exit plan is $16 million and will be recognized proportionately as we vacate the premises. No exit cost liabilities were recorded at September 30, 2011.
In connection with the Merger, we incurred merger and integration-related costs of $15 million and $36 million, net of tax, for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively. These costs are included in operation and maintenance (O&M) expense in our Consolidated Statements of Income.
See Note 25 in the 2010 Form 10-K for additional information regarding the Merger.
 
FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AND DISCLOSURES
In January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2010-06, "Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic 820): Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements," which amends Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820 to clarify certain existing disclosure requirements and to require a number of additional disclosures, including amounts and reasons for significant transfers between the three levels of the fair value hierarchy, and presentation of certain information in the reconciliation of recurring Level 3 measurements on a gross basis. ASU 2010-06 was effective for us on January 1, 2010, with certain disclosures effective January 1, 2011. The adoption of ASU 2010-06 resulted in additional disclosures in the notes to the financial statements but did not have an impact on our or the Utilities' financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-04, "Fair Value Measurement (Topic 820): Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs," which amends ASC 820 to develop a single, converged fair value framework between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. ASU 2011-04 is effective prospectively for us on January 1, 2012. The adoption of ASU 2011-04 will result in changes in certain fair value measurement principles, as well as additional disclosure in the notes to the financial statements. However, the impact of adoption is not expected to be significant to our or the Utilities' financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT TESTING
In September 2011, the FASB issued ASU 2011-08, "Testing Goodwill for Impairment," which amends the guidance in ASC 350 on testing goodwill for impairment. Under the revised guidance, we have the option of performing a qualitative assessment before calculating the fair value of our reporting units. If it is determined in the qualitative assessment that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we would proceed to the two-step goodwill impairment test. Otherwise, no further impairment testing would be required. ASU 2011-08 is effective for us on January 1, 2012. The adoption of ASU 2011-08 will give us the option, at our normal goodwill testing date, to perform the qualitative assessment to determine the need for a two-step goodwill impairment test. The impact of the adoption is not expected to be significant to our or the Utilities' financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
On January 8, 2011, Progress Energy and Duke Energy entered into the Merger Agreement. See Note 2 for regulatory information related to the Merger with Duke Energy.
 
COST RECOVERY FILINGS
On June 3, 2011, PEC filed with the NCUC for an increase in the fuel rate charged to its North Carolina retail ratepayers, driven by rising fuel prices. On September 15, 2011, PEC filed a settlement agreement for an increase of approximately $85 million in the fuel rate. The settlement agreement updated certain costs from PEC's original filing and included the impact of a $24 million disallowance of replacement power costs resulting from prior-year performance of PEC's nuclear plants. If approved, the increase will be effective December 1, 2011, and will increase residential electric bills by $2.75 per 1,000 kilowatt-hours (kWh) for fuel cost recovery. On June 3, 2011, and as subsequently amended on August 23, 2011, PEC also filed for a $24 million increase in the demand-side management (DSM) and energy-efficiency (EE) rate charged to its North Carolina ratepayers which, if approved, will be effective December 1, 2011, and will increase the residential electric bills by $1.08 per 1,000 kWh for DSM and EE cost recovery. On June 3, 2011, and as subsequently amended on September 8, 2011, PEC also requested a $9 million increase for North Carolina Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Portfolio Standard (NC REPS), which if approved, will be effective December 1, 2011, and will decrease the residential electric bills by $0.02 per 1,000 kWh. The residential NC REPS rate decreased while the total amount to be recovered increased due to the allocation of the NC REPS recovery between customer classes. The net impact of the settlement agreement and filings results in an average increase in residential electric bills of 3.7 percent. We cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
On June 29, 2011, the SCPSC approved a $22 million increase in the fuel rate charged to PEC's South Carolina ratepayers, driven by rising fuel prices. The increase was effective July 1, 2011, and increased residential electric bills by $3.45 per 1,000 kWh. Also on June 20, 2011, the SCPSC provisionally approved a $4 million increase in the DSM and EE rate. The increase was effective July 1, 2011, and increased residential electric bills by $1.25 per 1,000 kWh. The net impact of the two filings resulted in an average increase in residential electric bills of 4.7 percent. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
 
OTHER MATTERS
Construction of Generating Facilities
The NCUC has granted PEC permission to construct two new generating facilities: an approximately 950-MW combined cycle natural gas-fueled facility at its Lee generation facility and an approximately 620-MW natural gas-fueled facility at its Sutton generation facility. The facilities are expected to be placed in service in January 2013 and December 2013, respectively.
Planned Retirements of Generating Facilities
PEC filed a plan with the NCUC and the SCPSC to retire all of its coal-fired generating facilities in North Carolina that do not have scrubbers. These facilities total approximately 1,500 MW at four sites. On October 1, 2011, PEC retired the Weatherspoon coal-fired generating units. PEC expects to retire the remaining coal-fired facilities by the end of 2013.
The net carrying value of the four facilities at September 30, 2011, of $171 million is included in other utility plant, net on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Consistent with ratemaking treatment, PEC will continue to depreciate each plant using the current depreciation lives and rates on file with the NCUC and the SCPSC until the earlier of the plant's retirement or PEC's completion and filing of a new depreciation study on or before March 31, 2013. The final recovery periods may change in connection with the regulators' determination of the recovery of the remaining net carrying value.
 
CR3 OUTAGE
In September 2009, PEF's Crystal River Unit No. 3 Nuclear Plant (CR3) began an outage for normal refueling and maintenance as well as an uprate project to increase its generating capability and to replace two steam generators. During preparations to replace the steam generators, workers discovered a delamination (or separation) within the concrete at the periphery of the containment building, which resulted in an extension of the outage. After analysis, PEF determined that the concrete delamination at CR3 was caused by redistribution of stresses in the containment wall that occurred when PEF created an opening to accommodate the replacement of the unit's steam generators. In March 2011, the work to return the plant to service was suspended after monitoring equipment at the repair site identified a new delamination that occurred in a different section of the outer wall after the repair work was completed and during the late stages of retensioning the containment building. CR3 has remained out of service while PEF conducted an engineering analysis and review of the new delamination and evaluated repair options. Subsequent to March 2011, monitoring equipment has detected additional changes in the partially tensioned containment building and additional cracking or delaminations may have occurred or could occur during the repair process.
PEF analyzed multiple repair options as well as early decommissioning and believes, based on the information and analyses conducted to date, that repairing the unit is the best option. PEF engaged outside engineering consultants to perform the analysis of possible repair options for the second delamination. The consultants analyzed 22 potential repair options and ultimately narrowed those to four. PEF, along with other independent consultants, reviewed the four options for technical issues, constructability, and licensing feasibility as well as cost.
Based on that initial analysis, PEF selected the best repair option, which would entail systematically removing and replacing concrete in substantial portions of the containment structure walls. The planned option does not include the area where concrete was replaced during the initial repair. The preliminary cost estimate for this repair as filed with the FPSC on June 27, 2011, is between $900 million and $1.3 billion. Engineering design of the final repair is underway. PEF will update the current estimate as this work is completed.
PEF is moving forward systematically and will perform additional detailed engineering analyses and designs, which could affect any final repair plan. This process will lead to more certainty for the cost and schedule of the repair. PEF will continue to refine and assess the plan, and the prudence of continuing to pursue it, based on new
 
developments and analyses as the process moves forward. Under this repair plan, PEF estimates that CR3 will return to service in 2014. A number of factors could affect the repair plan, the return-to-service date and costs, including regulatory reviews, final engineering designs, contract negotiations, the ultimate work scope completion, testing, weather, the impact of new information discovered during additional testing and analysis and other developments.
CR3's current operating license expires in December 2016, and PEF applied for a 20-year renewal of the license in 2008. PEF understands that the NRC has completed the license extension process with the exception of the containment structure repair. Once the repair design has been completed and evaluated, the NRC can proceed with the review of the containment structure. Assuming the repair is successful, management is not aware of any reasons why CR3 will not satisfy the requirements for the license extension.
PEF maintains insurance for property damage and incremental costs of replacement power resulting from prolonged accidental outages through Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL). NEIL has confirmed that the CR3 initial delamination is a covered accident but has not yet made a determination as to coverage for the second delamination. Following a 12-week deductible period, the NEIL program provided reimbursement for replacement power costs for 52 weeks at $4.5 million per week, through April 9, 2011. An additional 71 weeks of coverage, which runs through August 2012, is provided at $3.6 million per week. Accordingly, the NEIL program provides replacement power coverage of up to $490 million per event. Actual replacement power costs have exceeded the insurance coverage through September 30, 2011. PEF anticipates that future replacement power costs will continue to exceed the insurance coverage. As discussed below, PEF considers replacement power costs not recoverable through insurance to be recoverable through its fuel cost-recovery clause. PEF also maintains insurance coverage through NEIL's accidental property damage program, which provides insurance coverage up to $2.25 billion with a $10 million deductible per claim. PEF is continuing to work with NEIL for recovery of applicable repair costs and associated replacement power costs.
The following table summarizes the CR3 replacement power and repair costs and recovery through September 30, 2011:
 
 
PEF believes the actions taken and costs incurred in response to the CR3 delamination have been prudent and, accordingly, considers replacement power and capital costs not recoverable through insurance to be recoverable through its fuel cost-recovery clause or base rates. PEF has recorded $324 million of NEIL replacement power cost reimbursements subsequent to the deductible period, of which $162 million has been received to date. PEF has received $45 million of replacement power reimbursements from NEIL for the nine months ended September 30, 2011. No replacement power reimbursements have been received from NEIL for the three months ended September 30, 2011. Additional replacement power costs and repair and maintenance costs incurred until CR3 is returned to service could be material. We cannot predict with certainty the future recoverability of these costs. Failure to recover some or all of these costs could have a material adverse effect on our and PEF's financial results. Additionally, we cannot be assured that CR3 can be repaired and brought back to service until full engineering and other analyses are completed.
On October 25, 2010, the FPSC approved PEF's motion to establish a separate spin-off docket to review the prudence and costs related to the outage and replacement fuel and power costs associated with the CR3 extended
 
outage. This docket will allow the FPSC to evaluate PEF's actions concerning the concrete delamination and review PEF's resulting costs associated with the extended outage. On June 27, 2011, PEF filed an updated status report with the NRC and FPSC regarding the CR3 outage. The FPSC held subsequent status conferences regarding the CR3 outage on July 14, 2011, and August 8, 2011.
On August 23, 2011, the FPSC issued an order dividing the docket into three phases. The first phase will include a prudence review of the events and decisions of PEF leading up to the October 2, 2009 delamination event. A hearing has been scheduled for June 11-15, 2012. The second phase will be a consideration of the prudence of PEF's decision to repair rather than decommission CR3. The third phase of this docket will include the decisions and events subsequent to the October 2, 2009 delamination leading up to the March 14, 2011 delamination event and the subsequent repair of the containment building. The hearing dates and schedules for the second and third phases will be set in subsequent orders. PEF will file status reports regarding its analysis of the engineering reports, costs, schedule for completion of the repair, along with updated information regarding the decision to repair rather than decommission CR3, and updates regarding the repair of the containment building in accordance with the controlling dates set forth by the FPSC. The first status report is due January 9, 2012.
We cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
COST OF REMOVAL RESERVE
The base rate settlement agreement in effect through the last billing cycle of 2012 provides PEF the discretion to reduce amortization expense (cost of removal component) by up to $150 million in 2010, up to $250 million in 2011, and up to any remaining balance in the cost of removal reserve in 2012 until the earlier of (a) PEF's applicable cost of removal reserve reaches zero, or (b) the expiration of the settlement agreement at the end of 2012. In the event PEF reduces amortization expense by less than the annual amounts for 2010 or 2011, PEF may carry forward (i.e., increase the annual cap by) any unused cost of removal reserve amounts in subsequent years during the term of the agreement. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, PEF carried an unused balance of $90 million forward from 2010, which is available to reduce future amortization expense. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, PEF recognized a $205 million reduction in amortization expense. Under the base rate settlement agreement, PEF had eligible cost of removal reserves of $294 million remaining as of September 30, 2011. The balance of the cost of removal reserve is impacted by accruals in accordance with PEF's latest depreciation study, removal costs expended and reductions in amortization expense as permitted by the settlement agreement.
FUEL COST RECOVERY
On September 1, 2011, and as subsequently adjusted by the FPSC (see "Nuclear Cost Recovery"), PEF filed its annual fuel-cost recovery filing, requesting to increase the total fuel-cost recovery by $162 million, increasing the residential rate by $3.32 per 1,000 kWh, or 2.78 percent, which will be effective January 1, 2012 if approved. This increase is due to an increase of $3.99 per 1,000 kWh for the projected recovery of fuel costs offset by a decrease of $0.67 per 1,000 kWh for the projected recovery through the Capacity Cost-Recovery Clause (CCRC). The increase in the projected recovery of fuel costs is due to an under-recovery from the prior year. The decrease in the CCRC is primarily due to lower anticipated costs associated with PEF's proposed Levy Units No. 1 and No. 2 Nuclear Power Plants (Levy), and the deferral of 2011 and 2012 estimated costs associated with PEF's CR3 uprate project until 2012 (see "Nuclear Cost Recovery"), partially offset by increased capacity costs and a reduction of the refund related to an over-recovery from the prior year. A hearing was held on November 1-2, 2011. An agenda conference has been scheduled for November 22, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
NUCLEAR COST RECOVERY
Levy Nuclear
Major construction activities on Levy have been postponed until after the NRC issues the combined license (COL) for the plants, which is expected in 2013 if the current licensing schedule remains on track. Along with the FPSC's annual prudence reviews, we will continue to evaluate the project on an ongoing basis based on certain criteria, including, but not limited to cost; potential carbon regulation; fossil fuel prices; the benefits of fuel diversification;
 
public, regulatory and political support; adequate financial cost-recovery mechanisms; appropriate levels of joint owner participation; customer rate impacts; project feasibility; DSM and EE programs; and availability and terms of capital financing. Taking into account these criteria, we consider Levy to be PEF's preferred baseload generation option.
CR3 Uprate
In 2007, the FPSC issued an order approving PEF's Determination of Need petition related to a multi-stage uprate of CR3 that will increase CR3's gross output by approximately 180 MW during its next refueling outage. PEF implemented the first-stage design modifications in 2008. The final stage of the uprate required a license amendment to be filed with the NRC, which was filed by PEF in June 2011.
Cost Recovery
On October 24, 2011, the FPSC approved a $78 million decrease in the amount charged to PEF's ratepayers for nuclear cost recovery, which is a component of, and is included in, the fuel cost recovery (See "Fuel Cost Recovery"), including recovery of pre-construction and carrying costs and CCRC recoverable O&M expense anticipated to be incurred during 2012, recovery of $60 million of prior years' deferrals in 2012, as well as the estimated actual true-up of 2011 costs associated with the Levy and CR3 uprate projects. Also included is the stipulation of PEF's filed motion with the FPSC to defer until 2012 the approval of the long-term feasibility analysis of completing the CR3 uprate, and the determination of reasonableness on, and recovery of, 2011 and 2012 estimated costs. This results in an estimated decrease in the nuclear cost-recovery charge of $2.67 per 1,000 kWh for residential customers, beginning with the first January 2012 billing cycle. The approved rate did not include PEF's request to apply the 2011 over-recovery against the prior-years' deferrals, but rather provides for the refund of $55 million for those prior period over collections. Under the FPSC's ruling, the prior-years' deferral will be recovered consistent with the 2009 rate mitigation plan as approved by the FPSC in 2009, which presented the recovery of costs over a five-year period.
DEMAND-SIDE MANAGEMENT
On July 26, 2011, the FPSC voted to set PEF's DSM compliance goals to remain at their current level until the next goal setting docket is initiated. An intervener timely filed a protest to the FPSC's Proposed Agency Action order, asserting legal challenges to the order. The FPSC has approved a briefing schedule for the parties to make legal arguments to the FPSC. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
On November 1, 2011, the FPSC approved PEF's request to decrease the Energy Conservation Cost Recovery Clause (ECCR) residential rate by $0.11 per 1,000 kWh, or 0.1 percent of the total residential rate, effective January 1, 2012. The decrease in the ECCR is primarily due to an increased refund of a prior period over-recovery, partially offset by an increase in conservation program costs.
OTHER MATTERS
On August 26, 2011, and as subsequently revised on October 14, 2011, PEF filed its annual Environmental Cost Recovery Clause (ECRC) filing, requesting to increase the ECRC by $24 million, increasing the residential rate by $0.54 per 1,000 kWh, or 0.5 percent, which would be effective January 1, 2012 if approved. The increase in the ECRC is primarily due to the 2011 return of a prior period over-recovery, partially offset by a decrease in the related O&M expense. A hearing was held on November 1-2, 2011. A subsequent agenda conference has been scheduled for November 22, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
 
 
There are no material differences between our basic and diluted earnings per share amounts or our basic and diluted weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011
 
and 2010. The effects of performance share awards and stock options outstanding on diluted earnings per share are immaterial.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Parent and its majority owned subsidiaries. Noncontrolling interests principally represent minority shareholders' proportionate share of the equity of a subsidiary and a VIE (See Note 1C).
The following table presents changes in total equity for the year to date:
 
 
PEC
Interim disclosures of changes in equity are required if the reporting entity has less than wholly owned subsidiaries, of which PEC has none. Therefore, an equity reconciliation for PEC has not been provided.
PEF
Interim disclosures of changes in equity are required if the reporting entity has less than wholly owned subsidiaries, of which PEF has none. Therefore, an equity reconciliation for PEF has not been provided.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
PEC
 
 
PEF
 
 
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had 500 million shares of common stock authorized under our charter, of which 295 million and 293 million shares were outstanding, respectively. We periodically issue shares of common stock through the Progress Energy 401(k) Savings & Stock Ownership Plan (401(k)), the Progress Energy Investor Plus Plan (IPP) and other benefit plans.
The following table presents information for our common stock issuances:
 
 
All of our preferred stock was issued by the Utilities. The preferred stock is considered temporary equity due to certain provisions that could require us to redeem the preferred stock for cash. In the event dividends payable on PEC or PEF preferred stock are in default for an amount equivalent to or exceeding four quarterly dividend payments, the holders of the preferred stock are entitled to elect a majority of PEC's or PEF's respective board of directors until all accrued and unpaid dividends are paid. All classes of preferred stock are entitled to cumulative dividends with preference to the common stock dividends, are redeemable by vote of the Utilities' respective board of directors at any time, and do not have any preemptive rights. All classes of preferred stock have a liquidation preference equal to $100 per share plus any accumulated unpaid dividends except for PEF's 4.75%, $100 par value class, which does not have a liquidation preference. Each holder of PEC's preferred stock is entitled to one vote. The holders of PEF's preferred stock have no right to vote except for certain circumstances involving dividends payable on preferred stock that are in default or certain matters affecting the rights and preferences of the preferred stock.
 
Material changes, if any, to Progress Energy's, PEC's and PEF's debt and credit facilities and financing activities since December 31, 2010, are as follows.
On January 21, 2011, the Parent issued $500 million of 4.40% Senior Notes due January 15, 2021. The net proceeds, along with available cash on hand, were used to retire the $700 million outstanding aggregate principal balance of our 7.10% Senior Notes due March 1, 2011.
On May 3, 2011, $22 million of the Parent's $500 million revolving credit agreement (RCA) expired, leaving the Parent with total credit commitments of $478 million supported by 14 financial institutions. After the $22 million expiration, our combined credit commitments for the Parent, PEC and PEF are $1.978 billion, supported by 23 financial institutions.
On July 15, 2011, PEF paid at maturity $300 million of its 6.65% First Mortgage Bonds with proceeds from commercial paper borrowings.
On August 18, 2011, PEF issued $300 million 3.10% First Mortgage Bonds due August 15, 2021. The net proceeds were used to repay a portion of outstanding short-term debt, of which $300 million was issued to repay PEF's July 15, 2011 maturity.
On September 15, 2011, PEC issued $500 million 3.00% First Mortgage Bonds due September 15, 2021. A portion of the net proceeds was used to repay outstanding short-term debt and the remainder was placed in temporary investments for general corporate use as needed, including construction expenditures.
On September 30, 2011, the current portion of our long-term debt was $950 million (including $500 million at PEC). We expect to fund the current portion of long-term debt with a combination of cash from operations, commercial paper borrowings and/or long-term debt.
 
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
DEBT
The carrying amount of our long-term debt, including current maturities, was $12.940 billion and $12.642 billion at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of this debt, as obtained from quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, was $15.1 billion and $14.0 billion at September 30, 2011 and
 
December 31, 2010, respectively.
INVESTMENTS
Certain investments in debt and equity securities that have readily determinable market values are accounted for as available-for-sale securities at fair value. Our available-for-sale securities include investments in stocks, bonds and cash equivalents held in trust funds, pursuant to NRC requirements, to fund certain costs of decommissioning the Utilities' nuclear plants as discussed in Note 4C of the 2010 Form 10-K. Nuclear decommissioning trust (NDT) funds are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value. In addition to the NDT funds, we hold other debt investments in certain benefit trusts classified as available-for-sale, which are included in miscellaneous other property and investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The following table summarizes our available-for-sale securities at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
The NDT funds and other available-for-sale debt investments held in certain benefit trusts are managed by third-party investment managers who have a right to sell securities without our authorization. Net unrealized gains and losses of the NDT funds that would be recorded in earnings or other comprehensive income by a nonregulated entity are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities pursuant to ratemaking treatment. Therefore, the preceding table includes the unrealized gains and losses for the NDT funds based on the original cost of the trust investments. All of the unrealized losses and unrealized gains for 2011 and 2010 relate to the NDT funds.
The aggregate fair value of investments that related to the September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010 unrealized losses was $266 million and $195 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2011, the fair value of our available-for-sale debt securities by contractual maturity was:
 
 
The following table presents selected information about our sales of available-for-sale securities during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. Realized gains and losses were determined on a specific identification basis.
 
Proceeds were primarily related to NDT funds. Some of our benefit investment trusts are managed by third-party investment managers who have the right to sell securities without our authorization. Losses for investments in those benefit investment trusts were not material. Other securities are evaluated on an individual basis to determine if a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, our other securities had no investments in a continuous loss position for greater than 12 months.
PEC
DEBT
The carrying amount of PEC's long-term debt, including current maturities, was $4.193 billion and $3.693 billion at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of this debt, as obtained from quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, was $4.7 billion and $4.0 billion at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
INVESTMENTS
Certain investments in debt and equity securities that have readily determinable market values are accounted for as available-for-sale securities at fair value. PEC's available-for-sale securities include investments in stocks, bonds and cash equivalents held in trust funds, pursuant to NRC requirements, to fund certain costs of decommissioning PEC's nuclear plants as discussed in Note 4C of the 2010 Form 10-K. NDT funds are presented on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.
The following table summarizes PEC's available-for-sale securities at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
 
The NDT funds are managed by third-party investment managers who have a right to sell securities without our authorization. Net unrealized gains and losses of the NDT funds that would be recorded in earnings or other comprehensive income by a nonregulated entity are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities pursuant to ratemaking treatment. Therefore, the preceding table includes the unrealized gains and losses for the NDT funds based on the original cost of the trust investments. All of the unrealized losses and gains for 2011 and 2010 relate to the NDT funds.
The aggregate fair value of investments that related to the September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010 unrealized losses was $142 million and $104 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2011, the fair value of PEC's available-for-sale debt securities by contractual maturity was:
 
The following table presents selected information about PEC's sales of available-for-sale securities during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. Realized gains and losses were determined on a specific identification basis.
 
PEC's proceeds were primarily related to NDT funds. Other securities are evaluated on an individual basis to determine if a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEC did not have any other securities.
PEF
DEBT
The carrying amount of PEF's long-term debt, including current maturities, was $4.482 billion at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010. The estimated fair value of this debt, as obtained from quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, was $5.4 billion and $5.0 billion at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively.
INVESTMENTS
Certain investments in debt and equity securities that have readily determinable market values are accounted for as available-for-sale securities at fair value. PEF's available-for-sale securities include investments in stocks, bonds and cash equivalents held in trust funds, pursuant to NRC requirements, to fund certain costs of decommissioning PEF's nuclear plant as discussed in Note 4C of the 2010 Form 10-K. The NDT funds are presented on the Balance Sheets at fair value.
 
The following table summarizes PEF's available-for-sale securities at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
The NDT funds are managed by third-party investment managers who have a right to sell securities without our authorization. Net unrealized gains and losses of the NDT funds that would be recorded in earnings or other comprehensive income by a nonregulated entity are recorded as regulatory assets and liabilities pursuant to ratemaking treatment. Therefore, the preceding table includes unrealized gains and losses for the NDT funds based on the original cost of the trust investments. All of the unrealized losses and gains for 2011 and 2010 relate to the NDT funds.
The aggregate fair value of investments that related to the September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010 unrealized losses was $124 million and $87 million, respectively.
At September 30, 2011, the fair value of PEF's available-for-sale debt securities by contractual maturity was:
 
The following table presents selected information about PEF's sales of available-for-sale securities during the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. Realized gains and losses were determined on a specific identification basis.
 
 
PEF's proceeds were related to NDT funds. Other securities are evaluated on an individual basis to determine if a decline in fair value below the carrying value is other-than-temporary. At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEF did not have any other securities.
 
GAAP defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (i.e., an exit price). Fair value measurements require the use of market data or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions about risk and the risks inherent in the inputs to the valuation technique. These inputs can be readily observable, corroborated by market data, or generally unobservable. Valuation techniques are required to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. A midmarket pricing convention (the midpoint price between bid and ask prices) is permitted for use as a practical expedient.
GAAP also establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value, and requires fair value measurements to be categorized based on the observability of those inputs. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 inputs) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 inputs). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows:
Level 1  The pricing inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the reporting date. Active markets are those in which transactions for the asset or liability occur in sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Level 1 primarily consists of financial instruments such as exchange-traded derivatives and listed equities.
Level 2  The pricing inputs are inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 includes financial instruments that are valued using models or other valuation methodologies. These models are primarily industry-standard models that consider various assumptions, including quoted forward prices for commodities, time value, volatility factors, and current market and contractual prices for the underlying instruments, as well as other relevant economic measures. Substantially all of these assumptions are observable in the marketplace throughout the full term of the instrument, can be derived from observable data or are supported by observable levels at which transactions are executed in the marketplace. Instruments in this category include non-exchange-traded derivatives, such as over-the-counter forwards, swaps and options; certain marketable debt securities; and financial instruments traded in less than active markets.
Level 3  The pricing inputs include significant inputs generally less observable from objective sources. These inputs may be used with internally developed methodologies that result in management's best estimate of fair value. Level 3 instruments may include longer-term instruments that extend into periods in which quoted prices or other observable inputs are not available.
Certain assets and liabilities, including long-lived assets, were measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. There were no significant fair value measurement losses recognized for such assets and liabilities in the periods reported. These fair value measurements fall within Level 3 of the hierarchy discussed above.
The following tables set forth, by level within the fair value hierarchy, our and the Utilities' financial assets and liabilities that were accounted for at fair value on a recurring basis as of September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the valuation of fair value assets and liabilities and their placement within the fair value hierarchy levels.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
 
PEC
 
 
PEF
 
The determination of the fair values in the preceding tables incorporates various factors, including risks of nonperformance by us or our counterparties. Such risks consider not only the credit standing of the counterparties involved and the impact of credit enhancements (such as cash deposits or letters of credit), but also the impact of our and the Utilities' credit risk on our liabilities.
Commodity forward contract derivatives and interest rate contract derivatives reflect positions held by us and the Utilities. Most over-the-counter commodity forward contract derivatives and interest rate contract derivatives are valued using financial models which utilize observable inputs for similar instruments and are classified within
 
Level 2. Other derivatives are valued utilizing inputs that are not observable for substantially the full term of the contract, or for which the impact of the unobservable period is significant to the fair value of the derivative. Such derivatives are classified within Level 3. See Note 12 for discussion of risk management activities and derivative transactions.
NDT funds reflect the assets of the Utilities' nuclear decommissioning trusts. The assets of the trusts are invested primarily in exchange-traded equity securities (classified within Level 1) and marketable debt securities, most of which are valued using Level 1 inputs for similar instruments and are classified within Level 2.
Other marketable securities primarily represent available-for-sale debt securities used to fund certain employee benefit costs.
Contingent Value Obligations (CVOs), which are derivatives, are discussed further in Note 10. At September 30, 2011, we determined the fair value of the CVOs based on the purchase price in a negotiated settlement agreement (a Level 3 input) and we have classified CVOs as Level 3. The CVOs were previously recorded at fair value based on quoted prices from a less-than-active market and classified as Level 2.
Transfers in (out) of Levels 1, 2 or 3 represent existing assets or liabilities previously categorized as a higher Level for which the inputs to the estimate became less observable or assets and liabilities that were previously classified as Level 2 or 3 for which the lowest significant input became more observable during the period. There were no significant transfers in (out) of Levels 1, 2 and 3 during the period other than the CVO transfer previously discussed. Transfers into and out of each Level are measured at the end of the period.
A reconciliation of changes in the fair value of our and the Utilities' derivative liabilities for CVOs and commodities, as applicable, classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy for the periods ended September 30 follows:
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
PEC
 
PEF
 
 
Substantially all unrealized gains and losses on the Utilities' derivatives are deferred as regulatory liabilities or assets consistent with ratemaking treatment. Unrealized losses on the change in fair value of our CVOs are discussed in Note 12. There were no Level 3 purchases, sales, issuances or settlements during the period.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
We and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various state jurisdictions. Our federal tax years are open for examination from 2007 forward, and our open state tax years in our major jurisdictions are generally from 2003 forward. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the IRS completed its examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns.
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $176 million. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate for income from continuing operations was $6 million at September 30, 2011.
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had accrued $19 million and $45 million, respectively, for interest and penalties, which were included in interest accrued and other liabilities and deferred credits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The decrease in interest and penalties was due to the completion of the examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns previously discussed.
PEC
We file consolidated federal and state income tax returns that include PEC. In addition, PEC files stand-alone tax returns in various state jurisdictions. PEC's federal tax years are open for examination from 2007 forward, and PEC's open state tax years in our major jurisdictions are generally from 2003 forward. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the IRS completed its examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns.
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEC's liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $79 million and $74 million, respectively. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate for income from continuing operations was $4 million at September 30, 2011.
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEC had accrued $8 million and $14 million, respectively, for interest and penalties, which were included in interest accrued and other liabilities and deferred credits on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The decrease in interest and penalties was due to the completion of the examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns previously discussed.
PEF
We file consolidated federal and state income tax returns that include PEF. PEF's federal tax years are open for examination from 2007 forward and PEF's open state tax years are generally from 2003 forward. During the three months ended September 30, 2011, the IRS completed its examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns.
At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEF's liability for unrecognized tax benefits was $87 million and $99 million, respectively. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would affect the effective tax rate for income from continuing operations was $2 million at September 30, 2011.
At September 30, 2011, PEF had accrued $7 million for interest and penalties, which were included in other current assets and other liabilities and deferred credits on the Balance Sheets. At December 31, 2010, PEF had accrued $29 million for interest and penalties, which were included in interest accrued and other assets and deferred debits on the Balance Sheets. The decrease in interest and penalties was due to the completion of the examination of the 2004 and 2005 tax returns previously discussed.
 
In connection with the acquisition of Florida Progress Corporation (Florida Progress) during 2000, the Parent issued 98.6 million CVOs. Each CVO represents the right of the holder to receive contingent payments based on the performance of four coal-based solid synthetic fuels limited liability companies purchased by subsidiaries of Florida Progress in October 1999. All of our synthetic fuels businesses were abandoned and all operations ceased as of December 31, 2007 (See Note 15 of the 2010 Form 10-K).
On June 10, 2011, Davidson Kempner Partners, M.H. Davidson & Co., Davidson Kempner Institutional Partners, L.P., and Davidson Kempner International, Ltd. (jointly, Davidson Kempner) filed a lawsuit against us (see Note 15C) related to their ownership of CVOs. On October 3, 2011, we entered a settlement agreement and release with Davidson Kempner under which the parties mutually released all claims related to the CVOs and we purchased all of Davidson Kempner's CVOs at a negotiated purchase price of $0.75 per CVO. The settlement agreement also contemplated a tender offer to remaining CVO holders at the same purchase price. Accordingly, we determined the purchase price included in the settlement agreement represented the fair value of the CVOs at September 30, 2011 (see Note 8). We commenced the tender offer in early November. The unrealized loss due to the change in fair value is recorded in other, net on the Consolidated Statements of Income. At September 30, 2011, the CVO liability included in other current liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $74 million, and at December 31, 2010, the CVO liability included in other liabilities and deferred credits on our Consolidated Balance Sheets was $15 million.
 
We have noncontributory defined benefit retirement plans that provide pension benefits for substantially all full-time employees. We also have supplementary defined benefit pension plans that provide benefits to higher-level employees. In addition to pension benefits, we provide contributory other postretirement benefits (OPEB), including certain health care and life insurance benefits, for retired employees who meet specified criteria.
The components of the net periodic benefit cost for the respective Progress Registrants for the three months ended September 30 were:
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
 
PEC
 
 
PEF
 
The components of the net periodic benefit cost for the respective Progress Registrants for the nine months ended September 30 were:
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
 
PEC
 
PEF
 
In 2011, we expect to make contributions directly to pension plan assets of approximately $325 million to $350 million for us, including $215 million to $225 million for PEC and $110 million to $125 million for PEF. We contributed $313 million during the nine months ended September 30, 2011, including $207 million for PEC and $105 million for PEF.
As a result of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the related Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which were enacted in March 2010, we recognized an additional tax expense of $22 million,
 
including $12 million for PEC and $10 million for PEF, during the nine months ended September 30, 2010. See Note 16A in the 2010 Form 10-K.
 
We are exposed to various risks related to changes in market conditions. We have a risk management committee that includes senior executives from various business groups. The risk management committee is responsible for administering risk management policies and monitoring compliance with those policies by all subsidiaries. Under our risk policy, we may use a variety of instruments, including swaps, options and forward contracts, to manage exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices and interest rates. Such instruments contain credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform under the contract. We minimize such risk by performing credit and financial reviews using a combination of financial analysis and publicly available credit ratings of such counterparties. Potential nonperformance by counterparties is not expected to have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations.
 
GENERAL
Most of our physical commodity contracts are not derivatives or qualify as normal purchases or sales. Therefore, such contracts are not recorded at fair value.
ECONOMIC DERIVATIVES
Derivative products, primarily natural gas and oil contracts, may be entered into from time to time for economic hedging purposes. While management believes the economic hedges mitigate exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices, these instruments are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes and are monitored consistent with trading positions.
The Utilities have financial derivative instruments with settlement dates through 2015 related to their exposure to price fluctuations on fuel oil and natural gas purchases. The majority of our financial hedge agreements will settle in 2011 and 2012. Substantially all of these instruments receive regulatory accounting treatment. Related unrealized gains and losses are recorded in regulatory liabilities and regulatory assets, respectively, on the Balance Sheets until the contracts are settled. After settlement of the derivatives and the fuel is consumed, any realized gains or losses are passed through the fuel cost-recovery clause.
Certain hedge agreements may result in the receipt of, or posting of, derivative collateral with our counterparties, depending on the daily derivative position. Fluctuations in commodity prices that lead to our return of collateral received and/or our posting of collateral with our counterparties negatively impact our liquidity. We manage open positions with strict policies that limit our exposure to market risk and require daily reporting to management of potential financial exposures.
Certain counterparties have posted or held cash collateral in support of these instruments. Progress Energy had a cash collateral asset included in derivative collateral posted of $112 million and $164 million on the Progress Energy Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. At September 30, 2011, Progress Energy had 339.4 million MMBtu notional of natural gas and 12.3 million gallons notional of fuel oil related to outstanding commodity derivative swaps that were entered into to hedge forecasted natural gas and oil purchases.
PEC had a cash collateral asset included in prepayments and other current assets of $14 million and $24 million on the PEC Consolidated Balance Sheets at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. At September 30, 2011, PEC had 98.4 million MMBtu notional of natural gas related to outstanding commodity derivative swaps that were entered into to hedge forecasted natural gas purchases.
 
PEF's cash collateral asset included in derivative collateral posted was $98 million and $140 million on the PEF Balance Sheets at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. At September 30, 2011, PEF had 241.0 million MMBtu notional of natural gas and 12.3 million gallons notional of oil related to outstanding commodity derivative swaps that were entered into to hedge forecasted natural gas and oil purchases.
 
We use cash flow hedging strategies to reduce exposure to changes in cash flow due to fluctuating interest rates. We use fair value hedging strategies to reduce exposure to changes in fair value due to interest rate changes. Our cash flow hedging strategies are primarily accomplished through the use of forward starting swaps and our fair value hedging strategies are primarily accomplished through the use of fixed-to-floating swaps. The notional amounts of interest rate derivatives are not exchanged and do not represent exposure to credit loss. In the event of default by the counterparty, the exposure in these transactions is the cost of replacing the agreements at current market rates.
CASH FLOW HEDGES
At September 30, 2011, all open interest rate hedges will reach their mandatory termination dates in approximately two years. At September 30, 2011, including amounts related to terminated hedges, we had $140 million of after-tax losses, including $70 million and $26 million of after-tax losses at PEC and PEF, respectively, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) related to forward starting swaps. It is expected that in the next twelve months losses of $12 million, net of tax, primarily related to terminated hedges, will be reclassified to interest expense at Progress Energy, including $6 million and $2 million at PEC and PEF, respectively. The actual amounts that will be reclassified to earnings may vary from the expected amounts as a result of changes in interest rates, changes in the timing of debt issuances at the Parent and the Utilities and changes in market value of currently open forward starting swaps.
At December 31, 2010, including amounts related to terminated hedges, we had $63 million of after-tax losses, including $33 million and $4 million of after-tax losses at PEC and PEF, respectively, recorded in accumulated OCI related to forward starting swaps.
At December 31, 2010, Progress Energy had $1.050 billion notional of open forward starting swaps, including $350 million at PEC and $200 million at PEF. At September 30, 2011, Progress Energy had $500 million notional of open forward starting swaps, including $250 million at PEC and $50 million at PEF.
FAIR VALUE HEDGES
For interest rate fair value hedges, the change in the fair value of the hedging derivative is recorded in net interest charges and is offset by the change in the fair value of the hedged item. At September 30, 2011, and December 31, 2010, neither we nor the Utilities had any outstanding positions in such contracts.
 
Certain of our commodity derivative instruments contain provisions defining fair value thresholds requiring the posting of collateral for hedges in a liability position greater than such threshold amounts. The thresholds are tiered and based on the individual company's credit rating with Moody's Investors Service, Inc. (Moody's), Standard & Poor's Rating Services (S&P) and/or Fitch Ratings (Fitch). Higher credit ratings have a higher threshold requiring a lower amount of the outstanding liability position to be covered by posted collateral. Conversely, lower credit ratings require a higher amount of the outstanding liability position to be covered by posted collateral. If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, we may have to post additional collateral on certain hedges in liability positions.
In addition, certain of our commodity derivative instruments contain provisions that require our debt to maintain an investment grade credit rating from Moody's, S&P and/or Fitch. If our debt were to fall below investment grade, we would be in violation of these provisions, and the counterparties to the commodity derivative instruments could request immediate payment or demand immediate and ongoing full overnight collateralization on commodity derivative instruments in net liability positions.
 
The aggregate fair value of all commodity derivative instruments at Progress Energy with credit risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position was $377 million at September 30, 2011, for which Progress Energy has posted collateral of $112 million in the normal course of business. If the credit risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements were triggered at September 30, 2011, Progress Energy would have been required to post an additional $265 million of collateral with its counterparties.
The aggregate fair value of all commodity derivative instruments at PEC with credit risk-related contingent features that are in a liability position was $116 million at September 30, 2011, for which PEC has posted collateral of $14 million in the normal course of business. If the credit risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements were triggered at September 30, 2011, PEC would have been required to post an additional $102 million of collateral with its counterparties.
The aggregate fair value of all commodity derivative instruments at PEF with credit risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position was $261 million at September 30, 2011, for which PEF has posted collateral of $98 million in the normal course of business. If the credit risk-related contingent features underlying these agreements were triggered on September 30, 2011, PEF would have been required to post an additional $163 million of collateral with its counterparties.
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
The following table presents the fair value of derivative instruments at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
 
 
PEC
The following table presents the fair value of derivative instruments at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Consolidated Statements of Income for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Consolidated Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
 
PEF
The following table presents the fair value of derivative instruments at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010:
 
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Statements of Income for the three months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
The following tables present the effect of derivative instruments on OCI (See Note 5C) and the Statements of Income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011 and 2010:
Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments
 
 
 
Our reportable segments are PEC and PEF, both of which are primarily engaged in the generation, transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in portions of North Carolina and South Carolina and in portions of Florida, respectively. These electric operations also distribute and sell electricity to other utilities, primarily on the east coast of the United States.
In addition to the reportable operating segments, the Corporate and Other segment includes the operations of the Parent and PESC and other miscellaneous nonregulated businesses that do not separately meet the quantitative thresholds for disclosure as separate reportable business segments.
Products and services are sold between the various reportable segments. All intersegment transactions are at cost.
 
 
Management uses the non-GAAP financial measure "Ongoing Earnings" as a performance measure to evaluate the results of our segments and operations. Ongoing Earnings is computed as GAAP net income attributable to controlling interests less discontinued operations and the effects of certain identified gains and charges, which are considered Ongoing Earnings adjustments. Some of the excluded gains and charges have occurred in more than one reporting period but are not considered representative of fundamental core earnings. Management has identified the following Ongoing Earnings adjustments: tax levelization, which increases or decreases the tax expense recorded in the reporting period to reflect the annual projected tax rate, because it has no impact on annual earnings; CVO mark-to-market adjustments because we are unable to predict changes in their fair value; CR3 indemnification charge (and subsequent adjustments, if any) for estimated future years' joint owner replacement power costs (through the expiration of the indemnification provisions of the joint owner agreement) because GAAP requires that the charge be accounted for in the period in which it becomes probable and estimable rather than the periods to which it relates; and the impact from changes in the tax treatment of the Medicare Part D subsidy because GAAP requires that the impact of the tax law change be accounted for in the period of enactment rather than the affected tax year. Additionally, management does not consider impairments, charges (and subsequent adjustments, if any) recognized for the retirement of generating units prior to the end of their estimated useful lives, merger and integration costs, and operating results of discontinued operations to be representative of our ongoing operations and excluded these items in computing Ongoing Earnings.
Reconciliations of consolidated Ongoing Earnings to net income attributable to controlling interests follow:
 
 
 
 
We are subject to regulation by various federal, state and local authorities in the areas of air quality, water quality, control of toxic substances and hazardous and solid wastes, and other environmental matters. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with those environmental regulations currently applicable to our business and operations and believe we have all necessary permits to conduct such operations. Environmental laws and regulations frequently change and the ultimate costs of compliance cannot always be precisely estimated.
 
The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and a number of states are considering additional regulatory measures that may affect management, treatment, marketing and disposal of coal combustion residues, primarily ash, from each of the Utilities' coal-fired plants. Revised or new laws or regulations under consideration may impose changes in solid waste classifications or groundwater protection environmental controls. In June 2010, the EPA proposed two options for new rules to regulate coal combustion residues. The first option would create a comprehensive program of federally enforceable requirements for coal combustion residues management and disposal as hazardous waste. The other option would have the EPA set performance standards for coal combustion residues management facilities and regulate disposal of coal combustion residues as nonhazardous waste. The EPA did not identify a preferred option. Under both options, the EPA may leave in place a regulatory exemption for approved beneficial uses of coal combustion residues that are recycled. A final rule is expected in 2012. Compliance plans and estimated costs to meet the requirements of new regulations will be determined when any new regulations are finalized. We are also evaluating the effect on groundwater quality from past and current operations, which may result in operational changes and additional measures under existing regulations. These issues are also under evaluation by state agencies. Certain regulated chemicals have been measured in wells near our ash ponds at levels above groundwater quality standards. Additional monitoring and investigation will be conducted. Detailed plans and cost estimates will be determined if these evaluations reveal that corrective actions are necessary. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
The provisions of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA), authorize the EPA to require the cleanup of hazardous waste sites. This statute imposes retroactive joint and several liabilities. Some states, including North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida, have similar types of statutes. We are periodically notified by regulators, including the EPA and various state agencies, of our involvement or potential involvement in sites that may require investigation and/or remediation. There are presently several sites with respect to which we have been notified of our potential liability by the EPA, the state of North Carolina, the state of Florida, or potentially responsible party (PRP) groups as described below in greater detail. Various organic materials associated with the production of manufactured gas, generally referred to as coal tar, are regulated under federal and state laws. PEC and PEF are each PRPs at several manufactured gas plant (MGP) sites. We are also currently in the process of assessing potential costs and exposures at other sites. These costs are eligible for regulatory recovery through either base rates or cost-recovery clauses. Both PEC and PEF evaluate potential claims against other PRPs and insurance carriers and plan to submit claims for cost recovery where appropriate. The outcome of potential and pending claims cannot be predicted.
We measure our liability for environmental sites based on available evidence, including our experience in investigating and remediating environmentally impaired sites. The process often involves assessing and developing cost-sharing arrangements with other PRPs. For all sites, as assessments are developed and analyzed, we will accrue costs for the sites in O&M expense on the Income Statements to the extent our liability is probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. Because the extent of environmental impact, allocation among PRPs for all sites, remediation alternatives (which could involve either minimal or significant efforts), and concurrence of the regulatory authorities have not yet reached the stage where a reasonable estimate of the remediation costs can be
 
made, we cannot determine the total costs that may be incurred in connection with the remediation of all sites at this time. It is probable that current estimates will change and additional losses, which could be material, may be incurred in the future.
The following tables contain information about accruals for probable and estimable costs related to various environmental sites, which were included in other current liabilities and other liabilities and deferred credits on the Balance Sheets:
PROGRESS ENERGY
 
 
PEC
 
 
 
PEF
 
 
PROGRESS ENERGY
In addition to the Utilities' sites discussed under "PEC" and "PEF" below, we incurred indemnity obligations related to certain pre-closing liabilities of divested subsidiaries, including certain environmental matters (See discussion under Guarantees in Note 15B).
PEC
PEC has recorded a minimum estimated total remediation cost for its remaining MGP sites based upon its historical experience with remediation of its MGP sites remediated to date. The maximum amount of the range for all the sites cannot be determined at this time. Actual experience may differ from current estimates, and it is probable that estimates will continue to change in the future.
In 2004, the EPA advised PEC that it had been identified as a PRP at the Ward Transformer site in Raleigh, N.C. (Ward). The EPA offered PEC and a number of other PRPs the opportunity to negotiate the removal action for the Ward site and reimbursement to the EPA for the EPA's past expenditures in addressing conditions at the Ward site. Subsequently, PEC and other PRPs signed a settlement agreement, which requires the participating PRPs to remediate the Ward site. At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, PEC's recorded liability for the site was approximately $5 million. In 2008 and 2009, PEC filed civil actions against PRPs seeking contribution for and recovery of costs incurred in remediating the Ward site, as well as a declaratory judgment that defendants are jointly and severally liable for response costs at the site. PEC has settled with a number of the PRPs and is in active settlement negotiations with others. In March 2010, the federal district court in which this matter is pending denied motions to dismiss filed by a number of defendants, but granted several other motions filed by state agencies and successor entities. In June 2010, the court entered a case management order and discovery is proceeding. The court also set a trial date for May 7, 2012. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted.
In 2008, the EPA issued a Record of Decision for the operable unit for stream segments downstream from the Ward site (Ward OU1) and advised 61 parties, including PEC, of their identification as PRPs for Ward OU1 and for the operable unit for further investigation at the Ward facility and certain adjacent areas (Ward OU2). The EPA's estimate for the selected remedy for Ward OU1 is approximately $6 million. The EPA offered PEC and the other PRPs the opportunity to negotiate implementation of a response action for Ward OU1 and a remedial investigation
 
and feasibility study for Ward OU2, as well as reimbursement to the EPA of approximately $1 million for the EPA's past expenditures in addressing conditions at the site. On September 29, 2011, the EPA issued unilateral administrative orders to certain parties, which did not include PEC, directing the performance of remedial activities with regard to Ward OU1. It is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the total amount of PEC's obligation, if any, for Ward OU1 and Ward OU2.
PEF
The accruals for PEF's MGP and other sites relate to two former MGP sites and other sites associated with PEF that have required, or are anticipated to require, investigation and/or remediation. The maximum amount of the range for all the sites cannot be determined at this time. Actual experience may differ from current estimates, and it is probable that estimates will continue to change in the future.
PEF has received approval from the FPSC for recovery through the ECRC of the majority of costs associated with the remediation of a population of distribution and substation transformers. Under agreements with the Florida Department of Environmental Protection (FDEP), PEF has reviewed these distribution transformer sites and substation sites for mineral oil-impacted soil caused by equipment integrity issues. Should additional distribution transformer sites be identified outside of this population, the distribution O&M expense will not be recoverable through the ECRC.
 
We are subject to various current federal, state and local environmental compliance laws and regulations governing air and water quality, resulting in capital expenditures and increased O&M expense. These compliance laws and regulations include the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR), the Clean Air Visibility Rule (CAVR), the North Carolina Clean Smokestacks Act, enacted in June 2002 (Clean Smokestacks Act) and mercury air regulation. PEC has installed environmental compliance controls that meet the emission reduction requirements under the first phase of the Clean Smokestacks Act. The air quality controls installed to comply with nitrogen oxides (NOx) requirements under certain sections of the Clean Air Act and the Clean Smokestacks Act, as well as PEC's plan to replace a portion of its coal-fired generation with natural gas-fueled generation, largely address the CAIR requirements for NOx for our North Carolina units at PEC. PEF has installed environmental compliance controls that meet the emission reduction requirements under the first phase of the CAIR.
In 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia (D.C. Court of Appeals) initially vacated the CAIR in its entirety and subsequently remanded the rule without vacating it for the EPA to conduct further proceedings consistent with the court's prior opinion. In 2010, the EPA published the proposed Clean Air Transport Rule, which was the regulatory program proposed to replace the CAIR. On July 7, 2011, the EPA issued the Cross-State Air Pollution Rule (CSAPR) as the final version of the proposed Clean Air Transport Rule. The CSAPR replaces the CAIR effective January 1, 2012. The CSAPR contains new emissions trading programs for NOx and sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) emissions as well as more stringent overall emissions targets in 27 states, including North Carolina, South Carolina and Florida. The EPA issued the CSAPR as four separate programs, including the NOx annual trading program, the NOx ozone season trading program, the SO
2
Group 1 trading program and the SO
2
Group 2 trading program. North Carolina and South Carolina are included in the NOx and SO
2
annual trading programs, as well as the NOx ozone season program. North Carolina remains classified as a Group 1 state, which will require additional NOx and SO
2
emission reductions beginning in January 2014. South Carolina remains classified as a Group 2 state with no additional reductions required. Florida is subject only to the NOx ozone season program. Due to significant investments in NOx and SO
2
emissions controls and fleet modernization projects completed or under way, we believe both PEC and PEF are relatively well positioned to comply with the CSAPR. Because of the D.C. Court of Appeals' decision that remanded the CAIR, implementation of the CAIR fulfilled best available retrofit technology (BART) for NOx and SO
2
for BART-affected units under the CAVR. Under subsequent implementation of CSAPR, CAVR compliance eventually will require consideration of NOx and SO
2
emissions in addition to particulate matter emissions for PEF's BART-eligible units, because Florida will no longer be subject to the annual emissions provisions. We are assessing the potential impact of BART and its implications with respect to our plans and estimated costs to comply with the CAVR. We are currently evaluating the impacts of the CSAPR.
 
In 2008, the D.C. Court of Appeals vacated the Clean Air Mercury Rule (CAMR). As a result, the EPA subsequently announced that it would develop a maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standard. The U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued an order requiring the EPA to issue a final MACT standard for power plants by November 16, 2011. On October 21, 2011, the EPA requested the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia to extend the deadline for the final rule to December 16, 2011. On March 16, 2011, the EPA issued its proposed MACT standards for coal-fired and oil-fired electric steam generating units (EGU MACT), and the proposed EGU MACT was formally published in the on May 3, 2011. The proposed EGU MACT contains stringent emission limits for mercury, non-mercury metals, and acid gases from coal-fired units and hazardous air pollutant metals, acid gases, and hydrogen fluoride from oil-fired units. Following the conclusion of the 90-day public comment period, the EPA has requested to issue a final rule in December 2011. In addition, North Carolina adopted a state-specific mercury requirement. The North Carolina mercury rule contains a requirement that all coal-fired units in the state install mercury controls by December 31, 2017, and requires compliance plan applications to be submitted in 2013. We are currently evaluating the impact of the EPA's proposed EGU MACT standard and the North Carolina state-specific requirement. The outcome of these matters cannot be predicted.
Federal Register
To date, expenditures at PEF for CAIR regulation primarily relate to environmental compliance projects at Crystal River Units No. 4 and No. 5 (CR4 and CR5), which have both been completed and placed in service. Under an agreement with the FDEP, PEF will retire Crystal River Units No. 1 and No. 2 (CR1 and CR2) as coal-fired units and operate emission control equipment at CR4 and CR5. CR1 and CR2 will be retired after the second proposed nuclear unit at Levy completes its first fuel cycle, which was originally anticipated to be around 2020. As discussed in Note 4B, major construction activities for Levy are being postponed until after the NRC issues the Levy COL. As required, PEF has advised the FDEP of these developments that will delay the retirement of CR1 and CR2 beyond the originally anticipated date. We are currently evaluating the impacts of the Levy schedule on PEF's compliance with environmental regulations. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
We account for emission allowances as inventory using the average cost method. Emission allowances are included on the Balance Sheets in inventory and in other assets and deferred debits. We value inventory of the Utilities at historical cost consistent with ratemaking treatment. As previously discussed, the CSAPR establishes new NOx annual and seasonal ozone programs and a new SO
2
trading program. NOx and SO
2
emission allowances applicable to the current CAIR cannot be used to satisfy the new CSAPR programs effective January 1, 2012. SO
2
emission allowances will be utilized by the Utilities to comply with existing Clean Air Act requirements. NOx allowances cannot be utilized to comply with other requirements. Therefore, NOx allowances that are not expected to be used in 2011 have been classified as obsolete inventory. PEC had an immaterial amount of NOx emission allowances. During the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011, PEF reduced the value of its NOx allowance inventory by $23 million, which is the remaining amount of NOx allowances that are not expected to be used in 2011. PEF believes the purchases of NOx emission allowances to meet the requirements of the CAIR were prudent and expects to recover the retail portion of the costs of these allowances through its ECRC. Accordingly, PEF recorded a $22 million regulatory asset for the retail portion of its NOx allowances. Therefore, there was no material impact to PEF's results of operations for the reduction in value of its NOx allowance inventory.
 
Contingencies and significant changes to the commitments discussed in Note 22 in the 2010 Form 10-K are described below.
 
As part of our ordinary course of business, we and the Utilities enter into various long- and short-term contracts for fuel requirements at our generating plants. Significant changes from the commitment amounts reported in Note 22A in the 2010 Form 10-K can result from new contracts, changes in existing contracts along with the impact of fluctuations in current estimates of future market prices for those contracts that are market price indexed. In most cases, these contracts contain provisions for price adjustments, minimum purchase levels, and other financial commitments. Additional commitments for fuel and related transportation will be required to supply the Utilities'
 
future needs. At September 30, 2011, our and the Utilities' contractual cash obligations and other commercial commitments have not changed materially from what was reported in the 2010 Form 10-K other than as follows:
PEC
As described in Note 22A in the 2010 Form 10-K, PEC entered into conditional agreements for firm pipeline transportation capacity to support PEC's gas supply needs. As the transactions are subject to several conditions precedent, the estimated costs associated with these agreements were not included in PEC's fuel commitments at December 31, 2010. The estimated total cost to PEC associated with these agreements at December 31, 2010, was approximately $2.042 billion, which pertain to the period from May 2011 through May 2033. During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, the conditions precedent for one of the agreements were satisfied. The agreement is for the period May 2011 through April 2031 and has an estimated total cost of approximately $487 million, including $16 million, $49 million, $49 million and $373 million, respectively, for less than one year, one to three years, three to five years and more than five years from December 31, 2010.
PEF
As described in Note 22A in the 2010 Form 10-K, PEF entered into conditional agreements for firm pipeline transportation capacity to support PEF's gas supply needs. As the transactions were subject to several conditions precedent, the estimated costs associated with these agreements were not included in PEF's fuel commitments at December 31, 2010. During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, the conditions precedent for these agreements were satisfied. These agreements are for the period April 2011 through April 2036 and have an estimated total cost of approximately $1.171 billion, including $36 million, $95 million, $95 million and $945 million, respectively, for less than one year, one to three years, three to five years and more than five years from December 31, 2010.
 
As a part of normal business, we enter into various agreements providing future financial or performance assurances to third parties. Such agreements include guarantees, standby letters of credit and surety bonds. At September 30, 2011, we do not believe conditions are likely for significant performance under these guarantees. To the extent liabilities are incurred as a result of the activities covered by the guarantees, such liabilities are included in the accompanying Balance Sheets.
At September 30, 2011, we have issued guarantees and indemnifications of and for certain asset performance, legal, tax and environmental matters to third parties, including indemnifications made in connection with sales of businesses. At September 30, 2011, our estimated maximum exposure for guarantees and indemnifications for which a maximum exposure is determinable was $351 million, including $75 million at PEF. Related to the sales of businesses, the latest specified notice period extends until 2013 for the majority of legal, tax and environmental matters provided for in the indemnification provisions. Indemnifications for the performance of assets extend to 2016. For certain matters for which we receive timely notice, our indemnity obligations may extend beyond the notice period. Certain indemnifications have no limitations as to time or maximum potential future payments. As part of settlement agreements entered into in 2002, PEF is responsible for providing the joint owners of CR3 a specified amount of generating capacity through the expiration of the indemnification provisions of the joint owner agreement in 2013. Due to the CR3 outage (See Note 4B), PEF has been unable to meet the required generating capacity and has provided replacement power from other generation sources or purchased power. During the nine months ended September 30, 2011, we and PEF recorded indemnification charges totaling $56 million for estimated joint owner replacement power costs for 2011 and future years, and provided replacement power totaling $17 million. At September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, we had recorded liabilities related to guarantees and indemnifications to third parties of $77 million and $31 million, respectively. These amounts included $50 million and $6 million for PEF at September 30, 2011 and December 31, 2010, respectively. As current estimates change, additional losses related to guarantees and indemnifications to third parties, which could be material, may be recorded in the future.
 
In addition, the Parent has issued $300 million in guarantees for certain payments of two wholly owned indirect subsidiaries (See Note 16).
 
MERGER
During January and February 2011, Progress Energy and its directors were named as defendants in eleven purported class action lawsuits with ten lawsuits brought in the Superior Court, Wake County, N.C. and one lawsuit filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of North Carolina, each in connection with the Merger (we refer to these lawsuits as the "actions"). The complaints in the actions allege, among other things, that the Merger Agreement was the product of breaches of fiduciary duty by the individual defendants, in that it allegedly does not provide for full and fair value for Progress Energy's shareholders; that the Merger Agreement contains coercive deal protection measures; and that the Merger Agreement and the Merger were approved as a result, allegedly, of improper self-dealing by certain defendants who would receive certain alleged employment compensation benefits and continued employment pursuant to the Merger Agreement. The complaints in the actions also allege that Progress Energy aided and abetted the individual defendants' alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. As relief, the plaintiffs in the actions seek, among other things, to enjoin completion of the Merger. The defendants believe that the allegations of the complaints in the actions are without merit and that they have substantial meritorious defenses to the claims made in the actions.
Additionally, the complaint in the federal action was amended in early April 2011 to include allegations that the defendants violated federal securities laws in connection with statements contained in the Registration Statement. Given the new allegations invoking federal securities laws, the defendants intend to move, plead, or otherwise respond to the amended federal complaint consistent with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act, which now governs the federal action.
On March 31, 2011, counsel for the federal action plaintiff sent a derivative demand letter to Mr. William D. Johnson, Chairman, President and CEO of Progress Energy, demanding that the Progress Energy board of directors desist from moving forward with the Merger, make certain disclosures, and engage in an auction of the company. Also on March 31, 2011, the same counsel sent Mr. Johnson a substantially identical derivative demand letter on behalf of two other purported Progress Energy shareholders.
On April 13, 2011, counsel for the federal action plaintiff sent another derivative demand letter to Mr. Johnson further demanding that the Progress Energy board of directors desist from moving forward with the Merger unless certain changes are made to the Merger Agreement and additional disclosures are made. Also on April 13, 2011, the same counsel sent Mr. Johnson a substantially identical derivative demand letter on behalf of two other purported Progress Energy shareholders.
On April 25, 2011, the Progress Energy board of directors established a special committee of disinterested directors to conduct a review and evaluation of the allegations and legal claims set forth in the derivative demand letters. The special committee investigated the allegations and legal claims and determined there was no basis to pursue the claims.
By order dated June 17, 2011, the court consolidated the state court cases. On June 21, 2011, the plaintiffs in the state court actions filed a verified consolidated amended complaint in the consolidated state court actions alleging breach of fiduciary duty by the individual defendants, and that Progress Energy aided and abetted the individual defendants' alleged breaches of fiduciary duty. The verified consolidated amended complaint further alleges that the Registration Statement and amendments filed on April 8, April 25, and May 13, 2011, failed to disclose material facts, giving rise to plaintiffs' claims.
On July 11, 2011, solely to avoid the costs, risks and uncertainties inherent in litigation and to allow its shareholders to vote on the proposals required in connection with the Merger at its special meeting of its shareholders, Progress Energy entered into a memorandum of understanding with plaintiffs in the consolidated state court actions and other named defendants to settle the consolidated action and all related claims that were or could have been asserted in
 
other actions, subject to court approval. If the court approves the settlement contemplated in the memorandum of understanding, the claims will be released and the consolidated amended complaint will be dismissed with prejudice. Pursuant to the terms of the memorandum of understanding, Progress Energy agreed to make available additional information to its shareholders in advance of the special meeting of shareholders of Progress Energy held on August 23, 2011, in Raleigh, N.C. to vote upon the proposal to approve the plan of merger contained in the Merger Agreement. The additional information was contained in a Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11, 2011 and filed by Progress Energy with the SEC on July 15, 2011. In addition, Progress Energy has agreed to pay the legal fees and expenses of plaintiffs' counsel not to exceed $550,000 and ultimately determined by the court. At a hearing on July 29, 2011, the court indicated that it would provide preliminary approval of the settlement so that the special meeting of the shareholders to vote on the merger could proceed as scheduled on August 23, 2011.
On October 27, 2011, a final hearing was held to consider the settlement and plaintiffs' application to the court for attorneys' fees and expenses. A court order is expected by the end of November. The details of the settlement were set forth in a notice sent to Progress Energy's shareholders of record that were members of the class as of July 5, 2011. There can be no assurance that the parties will ultimately enter into a stipulation of settlement or that the court will approve the settlement even if the parties were to enter into such stipulation. In such event, the proposed settlement as contemplated by the memorandum of understanding may be terminated. The settlement will not affect the merger consideration to be paid to shareholders of Progress Energy in connection with the proposed Merger.
We cannot predict the outcome of these matters.
ENVIRONMENTAL
We are subject to federal, state and local regulations regarding environmental matters (See Note 14).
Hurricane Katrina
In May 2011, PEC and PEF were named in a complaint of a class action lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Mississippi. Plaintiffs claim that PEC and PEF, along with numerous other utility, oil, coal and chemical companies, are liable for damages relating to losses suffered by victims of Hurricane Katrina. Plaintiffs claim that defendants' greenhouse gas emissions contributed to the frequency and intensity of storms such as Hurricane Katrina. We believe the plaintiffs' claim is without merit; however, we cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
Water Discharge Permit
On October 5, 2011, Earthjustice, on behalf of the Sierra Club and Florida Wildlife Federation, filed a petition seeking review of the water discharge permit issued to CR1, CR2 and CR3. The petition raises a number of technical and legal issues with respect to the permit, all of which PEF disputes. The FDEP advised PEF that it intends to accept the petition for hearing. If the petitioners are successful in their challenge, additional controls could be required, the cost of which could be material. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
SPENT NUCLEAR FUEL MATTERS
Pursuant to the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, the Utilities entered into contracts with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) under which the DOE agreed to begin taking spent nuclear fuel by no later than January 31, 1998. All similarly situated utilities were required to sign the same standard contract.
The DOE failed to begin taking spent nuclear fuel by January 31, 1998. In January 2004, the Utilities filed a complaint in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims against the DOE, claiming that the DOE breached the Standard Contract for Disposal of Spent Nuclear Fuel by failing to accept spent nuclear fuel from our various facilities on or before January 31, 1998. The Utilities have asserted over $90 million in damages incurred between January 31, 1998, and December 31, 2005, the time period set by the court for damages in this case. The Utilities may file subsequent damage claims as they incur additional costs.
 
In 2008, the Utilities received a ruling from the United States Court of Federal Claims awarding $83 million in the claim against the DOE for failure to abide by a contract for federal disposition of spent nuclear fuel. A request for reconsideration filed by the DOJ resulted in an immaterial reduction of the award. Substantially all of the award relates to costs incurred by PEC. On August 15, 2008, the DOJ appealed the U.S. Court of Federal Claims ruling to the D.C. Court of Appeals. On July 21, 2009, the D.C. Court of Appeals vacated and remanded the calculation of damages back to the Trial Court but affirmed the portion of damages awarded that were directed to overhead costs and other indirect expenses. The DOJ requested a rehearing en banc but the D.C. Court of Appeals denied the motion on November 3, 2009. The U.S. Court of Federal Claims held the remand hearing on the calculation of damages on February 16, 2011. On June 14, 2011, the judge issued a ruling to award the Utilities substantially all their asserted damages. In September 2011, after the government dismissed its notice of appeal, the judgment became final. As a result, during the three months ended September 30, 2011, PEC recorded the $92 million award as an offset for past spent fuel storage costs incurred, of which $27 million was O&M expense.
SYNTHETIC FUELS MATTERS
On October 21, 2009, a jury delivered a verdict in a lawsuit against Progress Energy and a number of our subsidiaries and affiliates arising out of an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of October 19, 1999, and amended as of August 23, 2000 (the Asset Purchase Agreement) by and among U.S. Global, LLC (Global); Earthco; certain affiliates of Earthco; EFC Synfuel LLC (which was owned indirectly by Progress Energy, Inc.) and certain of its affiliates, including Solid Energy LLC; Solid Fuel LLC; Ceredo Synfuel LLC; Gulf Coast Synfuel LLC (renamed Sandy River Synfuel LLC) (collectively, the Progress Affiliates), as amended by an amendment to the Asset Purchase Agreement. In a case filed in the Circuit Court for Broward County, Fla., in March 2003 (the Florida Global Case), Global requested an unspecified amount of compensatory damages, as well as declaratory relief. Global asserted (1) that pursuant to the Asset Purchase Agreement, it was entitled to an interest in two synthetic fuels facilities previously owned by the Progress Affiliates and an option to purchase additional interests in the two synthetic fuels facilities and (2) that it was entitled to damages because the Progress Affiliates prohibited it from procuring purchasers for the synthetic fuels facilities. As a result of the expiration of the Internal Revenue Code Section 29 tax credit program on December 31, 2007, all of our synthetic fuels businesses were abandoned and we reclassified our synthetic fuels businesses as discontinued operations.
The jury awarded Global $78 million. On October 23, 2009, Global filed a motion to assess prejudgment interest on the award. On November 20, 2009, the court granted the motion and assessed $55 million in prejudgment interest and entered judgment in favor of Global in a total amount of $133 million. During the year ended December 31, 2009, we recorded an after-tax charge of $74 million to discontinued operations. On December 18, 2009, we appealed the Broward County judgment to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeals. Also in December 2009, we made a $154 million payment, which represents payment of the total judgment and a required premium equivalent to two years of interest, to the Broward County Clerk of Court bond account. The appellate briefing process has been completed. Oral argument was held on September 27, 2011. We cannot predict the outcome of this matter.
In a second suit filed in the Superior Court for Wake County, N.C., (the North Carolina Global Case), the Progress Affiliates seek declaratory relief consistent with our interpretation of the Asset Purchase Agreement. Global was served with the North Carolina Global Case on April 17, 2003.
Progress Synfuel Holdings, Inc. et al. v. U.S. Global, LLC
On May 15, 2003, Global moved to dismiss the North Carolina Global Case for lack of personal jurisdiction over Global. In the alternative, Global requested that the court decline to exercise its discretion to hear the Progress Affiliates' declaratory judgment action. On August 7, 2003, the Wake County Superior Court denied Global's motion to dismiss, but stayed the North Carolina Global Case, pending the outcome of the Florida Global Case. The Progress Affiliates appealed the superior court's order staying the case. By order dated September 7, 2004, the North Carolina Court of Appeals dismissed the Progress Affiliates' appeal. Based upon the verdict in the Florida Global Case, we anticipate dismissal of the North Carolina Global Case.
 
FLORIDA NUCLEAR COST RECOVERY
On February 8, 2010, a lawsuit was filed against PEF in state circuit court in Sumter County, Fla., alleging that the Florida nuclear cost-recovery statute (Section 366.93, Florida Statutes) violates the Florida Constitution, and seeking a refund of all monies with interest collected by PEF pursuant to that statute. The complaint also requests that the court grant class action status to the plaintiffs. On April 6, 2010, PEF filed a motion to dismiss the complaint. The trial judge issued an order on May 3, 2010, dismissing the complaint. The plaintiffs filed an amended complaint on June 1, 2010. PEF believes the lawsuit is without merit and filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint on July 12, 2010. On October 1, 2010, the plaintiffs filed an appeal of the trial court's order dismissing the complaint. The court issued a affirmed opinion on May 17, 2011, which affirmed the trial court's dismissal of the lawsuit. The appellants filed a motion for written opinion on May 20, 2011, which was denied by the appellate court on June 20, 2011. With this final ruling from the appellate court, the plaintiffs have no further appellate rights; therefore this ruling ends this class action litigation against PEF.
per curiam
CLAIM OF HOLDER OF CONTINGENT VALUE OBLIGATIONS
On June 10, 2011, Davidson Kempner Partners, M.H. Davidson & Co., Davidson Kempner Institutional Partners, L.P., and Davidson Kempner International, Ltd. (jointly, Davidson Kempner) filed a lawsuit against us in the Supreme Court of the State of New York, County of New York. Davidson Kempner is a holder of CVOs (See Note 10) and alleged that we improperly deducted escrow deposits in 2005 in determining net after-tax cash flow under the agreement governing the CVOs and that by taking this position, we breached our obligation under the agreement to exercise good faith and fair dealing. The plaintiffs alleged that this breach caused injury to the holders of CVOs in the approximate amount of $42 million. The plaintiffs requested declaratory judgment to require that we deduct the escrowed payments in 2006.
On August 2, 2011, the parties filed a Stipulation of Discontinuance without Prejudice to dismiss the state lawsuit so that certain of the plaintiffs could file a federal lawsuit against us. On August 9, 2011, M.H. Davidson & Co. and Davidson Kempner International, Ltd. filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York with the same allegations and seeking the same relief as the prior state lawsuit. On October 3, 2011, we entered a settlement agreement and release with Davidson Kempner under which the parties mutually released all claims related to the CVOs and we purchased all of Davidson Kempner's CVOs at a negotiated purchase price of $0.75 per CVO. The parties to the federal lawsuit filed a Stipulation of Discontinuance with Prejudice dismissing the lawsuit on October 12, 2011.
OTHER LITIGATION MATTERS
We and our subsidiaries are involved in various litigation matters in the ordinary course of business, some of which involve substantial amounts. While the results of litigation and claims cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe the reasonably possible losses of such matters, individually and in the aggregate, are not material. Additionally, we believe the final outcome of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.
 
As discussed in Note 23 in the 2010 Form 10-K, we have guaranteed certain payments of two 100 percent owned indirect subsidiaries, FPC Capital I (the Trust) and Florida Progress Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.). Our guarantees are joint and several, full and unconditional and are in addition to the joint and several, full and unconditional guarantees issued to the Trust and Funding Corp. by Florida Progress. Our subsidiaries have provisions restricting the payment of dividends to the Parent in certain limited circumstances, and as disclosed in Note 11B in the 2010 Form 10-K, there were no restrictions on PEC's or PEF's retained earnings.
The Trust is a VIE of which we are not the primary beneficiary. Separate financial statements and other disclosures concerning the Trust have not been presented because we believe that such information is not material to investors.
 
Presented below are the condensed consolidating Statements of Income, Balance Sheets and Statements of Cash Flows as required by Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X. In these condensed consolidating statements, the Parent column includes the financial results of the parent holding company only. The Subsidiary Guarantor column includes the consolidated financial results of Florida Progress only, which is primarily comprised of its wholly owned subsidiary PEF. The Non-guarantor Subsidiaries column includes the consolidated financial results of all non-guarantor subsidiaries, which is primarily comprised of our wholly owned subsidiary PEC. The Other column includes elimination entries for all intercompany transactions and other consolidation adjustments. Financial statements for PEC and PEF are separately presented elsewhere in this Form 10-Q. All applicable corporate expenses have been allocated appropriately among the guarantor and non-guarantor subsidiaries. The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations or financial position had the Subsidiary Guarantor or other non-guarantor subsidiaries operated as independent entities.
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
Three months ended September 30, 2011
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
Three months ended September 30, 2010
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
Nine months ended September 30, 2011
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income
Nine months ended September 30, 2010
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
September 30, 2011
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet
December 31, 2010
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
Nine months ended September 30, 2011
 
 
Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows
Nine months ended September 30, 2010
 
 

Exhibit
99.2
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations information for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010, gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred on January 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet information as of September 30, 2011, gives effect to the merger as if it had occurred on September 30, 2011.
We present the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements for illustrative purposes only, and they are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations and financial position that would have been achieved had the pro forma events taken place on the dates indicated, or the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of the combined company. Future results may vary significantly from the results reflected because of various factors, including those discussed in this document under the heading "Risk Factors" beginning on page 20. You should read the following selected unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial information in conjunction with the "Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Information" and related notes included in this document beginning on page 143.
 
 
 
 
The following tables present: (1) historical per share information for Duke Energy; (2) pro forma per share information of the combined company after giving effect to the merger; and (3) historical and equivalent pro forma per share information for Progress Energy.
We derived the combined company pro forma per share information primarily by combining information from the historical consolidated financial statements of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. You should read these tables together with the historical consolidated financial statements of Duke Energy and Progress Energy that are filed with the SEC. You should not rely on the pro forma per share information as being necessarily indicative of actual results had the merger occurred on January 1, 2010, for statement of operations purposes or September 30, 2011, for book value per share data.
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements (which we refer to as the pro forma financial statements) have been primarily derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of Duke Energy and Progress Energy.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statements of Operations (which we refer to as the pro forma statements of operations) for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010, give effect to the merger as if it were completed on January 1, 2010. The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet (which we refer to as the pro forma balance sheet) as of September 30, 2011 gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on September 30, 2011.
The merger agreement provides that each outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock (other than shares owned by Progress Energy (other than in a fiduciary capacity), Duke Energy, or Diamond Acquisition Corporation, which will be cancelled) will be converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the merger agreement and with cash generally to be paid in lieu of fractional shares. The exchange ratio will be adjusted proportionately to reflect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy common stock that Duke Energy plans to implement prior to, and conditioned on, the completion of the merger. The resulting adjusted exchange ratio will be 0.87083 of a share of Duke Energy common stock for each share of Progress Energy common stock. The pro forma statements of operations illustrate pro forma earnings per common share and weighted average common shares outstanding based both on the unadjusted exchange ratio of 2.6125 and the reverse stock split adjusted exchange ratio of 0.87083.
The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted in the pro forma financial statements to give effect to pro forma events that are: (1) directly attributable to the merger; (2) factually supportable; and (3) with respect to the statements of operations, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. As such, the impact from merger related expenses is not included in the accompanying pro forma statements of operations. However, the impact of estimated future merger related expenses is reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as an increase to accounts payable and a decrease to retained earnings.
The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any cost savings (or associated costs to achieve such savings) from operating efficiencies (e.g., savings related to fuel and joint dispatch of the combined entity's generation) or synergies that could result from the merger. Further, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect the effect of any regulatory actions that may impact the pro forma financial statements when the merger is completed. In addition, the pro forma financial statements do not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company. Transactions between Progress Energy and Duke Energy during the periods presented in the pro forma financial statements have been eliminated as if Duke Energy and Progress Energy were consolidated affiliates during the periods.
United States generally accepted accounting principles require that one party to the merger be identified as the acquirer. In accordance with these standards, the merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy will be accounted for as an acquisition of Progress Energy common stock by Duke Energy and will follow the acquisition method of accounting for business combinations. The purchase price will ultimately be determined on the acquisition date based upon the fair value of the shares of Duke Energy common stock issued in the merger. The purchase price for the pro forma financial statements is based on the closing price of Duke Energy common stock on the NYSE on November 3, 2011, of $20.81 per share and the exchange of Progress Energy's outstanding shares of common stock for the right to receive 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock (refer to Note 2 to the pro forma financial statements for additional information related to the preliminary purchase price).
Assumptions and estimates underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in the accompanying notes, which should be read in connection with the pro forma financial statements. Since the pro forma financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates, the final amounts recorded at the date of the merger may differ materially from the information presented. These estimates are subject to change pending further review of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the final purchase price.
The pro forma financial statements have been presented for illustrative purposes only and are not necessarily indicative of results of operations and financial position that would have been achieved had the pro forma events taken place on the dates indicated, or the future consolidated results of operations or financial position of the combined company.
 
The following pro forma financial statements should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.
 
 
See accompanying Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements, which are an integral part of these statements.
 
Note 1. Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The pro forma statements of operations for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010, give effect to the merger as if it were completed on January 1, 2010. The pro forma balance sheet as of September 30, 2011, gives effect to the merger as if it were completed on September 30, 2011.
The pro forma financial statements have been derived from the historical consolidated financial statements of Duke Energy and Progress Energy. Assumptions and estimates underlying the pro forma adjustments are described in these notes, which should be read in conjunction with the pro forma financial statements. Since the pro forma financial statements have been prepared based upon preliminary estimates, the final amounts recorded at the date of the merger may differ materially from the information presented. These estimates are subject to change pending further review of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
The merger is reflected in the pro forma financial statements as an acquisition of Progress Energy by Duke Energy, based on the guidance provided by accounting standards for business combinations. Under these accounting standards, the total estimated purchase price is calculated as described in Note 2 to the pro forma financial statements, and the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed have been measured at estimated fair value. For the purpose of measuring the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, Duke Energy has applied the accounting guidance for fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. The fair value measurements utilize estimates based on key assumptions of the merger, including historical and current market data. The pro forma adjustments included herein are preliminary and will be revised at the time of the merger as additional information becomes available and as additional analyses are performed. The final purchase price allocation will be determined at the time that the merger is completed, and the final amounts recorded for the merger may differ materially from the information presented.
Estimated transaction costs have been excluded from the pro forma statements of operations as they reflect non-recurring charges directly related to the merger. However, the anticipated transaction costs are reflected in the pro forma balance sheet as an increase to accounts payable and a decrease to retained earnings.
The pro forma financial statements do not reflect any cost savings (or associated costs to achieve such savings) from operating efficiencies (e.g., savings related to fuel and joint dispatch of the combined entity's generation), synergies or other restructuring that could result from the merger. Further, the pro forma financial statements do not reflect the effect of any regulatory actions that may impact the pro forma financial statements when the merger is completed.
Progress Energy's regulated operations comprise electric generation, transmission and distribution operations. These operations are subject to the rate-setting authority of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the North Carolina Utilities Commission, the Public Service Commission of South Carolina, and the Florida Public Service Commission and are accounted for pursuant to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, including the accounting guidance for regulated operations. The rate-setting and cost recovery provisions currently in place for Progress Energy's regulated operations provide revenues derived from costs including a return on investment of assets and liabilities included in rate base. Thus, the fair values of Progress Energy's tangible and intangible assets and liabilities subject to these rate-setting provisions approximate their carrying values, and the pro forma financial statements do not reflect any net adjustments related to these amounts.
 
 
Note 2. Preliminary Purchase Price
The merger agreement provides that each outstanding share of Progress Energy common stock (other than shares owned by Progress Energy (other than in a fiduciary capacity), Duke Energy, or Diamond Acquisition Corporation, which will be cancelled) will be converted into the right to receive 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock subject to appropriate adjustment for a reverse stock split of the Duke Energy common stock as contemplated in the merger agreement and with cash generally to be paid in lieu of fractional shares. Each outstanding option to acquire, and each outstanding equity award relating to, one share of Progress Energy common stock will be converted into an option to acquire, or an equity award relating to, 2.6125 shares of Duke Energy common stock, as applicable, subject to appropriate adjustment for the reverse stock split. The exchange ratio will be adjusted proportionately to reflect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy common stock that Duke Energy plans to implement prior to, and conditioned on, the completion of the merger. The resulting adjusted exchange ratio is 0.87083 of a share of Duke Energy common stock for each share of Progress Energy common stock.
The purchase price for the merger is estimated as follows (shares in thousands):
 
The preliminary purchase price was computed using Progress Energy's outstanding shares as of September 30, 2011, adjusted for the exchange ratio. The preliminary purchase price reflects the market value of Duke Energy's common stock to be issued in connection with the merger based on the closing price of Duke Energy's common stock on November 3, 2011. The preliminary purchase price also reflects the total estimated fair value of Progress Energy stock compensation awards outstanding as of September 30, 2011, excluding the value associated with employee service yet to be rendered.
The preliminary purchase price as adjusted for the reverse stock split assumes that the reverse stock split will result in the price of Duke Energy common stock increasing by a factor of 3. It should be noted that there is no guarantee that the Duke Energy reverse stock split will result in a proportionate increase in the market price of Duke Energy common stock.
The preliminary purchase price will fluctuate with the market price of Duke Energy's common stock until it is reflected on an actual basis when the merger is completed. An increase or decrease of 20 percent in Duke Energy's common share price from the price used above would increase or decrease the purchase price by approximately $3,200 million.
Note 3. Adjustments to Pro Forma Financial Statements
The pro forma adjustments included in the pro forma financial statements are as follows:
(a) Based on the amounts reported in the consolidated statements of operations and balance sheets of Duke Energy and Progress Energy for the nine months ended and as of September 30, 2011, and in the consolidated statements of operations of Duke Energy and Progress Energy for the year ended December 31, 2010, certain financial statement line items included in Progress Energy's historical presentation have been reclassified to conform to corresponding financial statement line items included in Duke Energy's historical presentation. These reclassifications have no material impact on the historical operating income, net income from continuing operations attributable to controlling interests, total assets, liabilities or shareholders' equity reported by Duke Energy or Progress Energy. The accompanying pro forma statements of operations exclude the results of discontinued operations.
Duke Energy and Progress Energy historical presentation.
 
 
Additionally, based on Duke Energy's review of Progress Energy's summary of significant accounting policies disclosed in Progress Energy's financial statements and preliminary discussions with Progress Energy management, the nature and amount of any adjustments to the historical financial statements of Progress Energy to conform its accounting policies to those of Duke Energy are not expected to be material. Upon completion of the merger, further review of Progress Energy's accounting policies and financial statements may result in revisions to Progress Energy's policies and classifications to conform to Duke Energy.
The allocation of the preliminary purchase price to the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed includes pro forma adjustments to reflect the fair values of Progress Energy's assets and liabilities. The allocation of the preliminary purchase price is as follows (in millions):
 
Adjustments to Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Statements of Operations
(b) and Primarily reflects the elimination of electric transmission transactions between Duke Energy and Progress Energy that occurred during the year ended December 31, 2010, and the nine months ended September 30, 2011, as if Duke Energy and Progress Energy were consolidated affiliates during the periods.
Operating Revenues  Regulated Electric
Operating ExpensesFuel Used in Electric Generation and Purchased Power  Regulated.
(c) Reflects the elimination of approximately $56 million in nonrecurring transaction costs directly attributable to the merger. Also refer to Note 3(k).
Operating Expenses  Operation, Maintenance and Other.
(d) The net adjustment amount reflects a reduction in interest expense as a result of the amortization of the pro forma fair value adjustment of Progress Energy's parent company debt ($45 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $35 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011) and the elimination of amortization of deferred costs related to this debt ($8 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $2 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011). The effect of the fair value adjustment is being amortized over the remaining life of the individual debt issuances, with the longest amortization period being approximately 28 years. The final fair value determination of the debt will be based on prevailing market interest rates at the completion of the merger and the necessary adjustment will be amortized as a reduction (in the case of a premium to book value) or an increase (in the case of a discount to book value) to interest expense over the remaining life of the individual debt issuances. The portion of the adjustment related to Progress Energy's regulated company debt is offset by a net increase to regulatory assets, and amortization of these adjustments ($101 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and $76 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2011) offset each other with no effect on earnings.
Interest Expense.
(e) The pro forma adjustments include the income tax effects of the pro forma adjustments calculated using an estimated statutory income tax rate of 39%. This estimated tax rate is different from Duke Energy's effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010, which includes other tax charges or benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company.
Income Tax Expense.
(f) Reflects the elimination of Progress Energy's common stock and the issuance of approximately 771 million common shares of Duke Energy using the unadjusted exchange ratio of 2.6125; or 257 million shares using the adjusted exchange ratio of 0.87083. The adjusted exchange ratio of 0.87083 reflects the planned 1-for-3 reverse stock split, as discussed in Note 2. This share issuance does not consider that fractional shares will be paid in cash, as applicable.
Shares Outstanding.
 
 
The pro forma weighted average number of basic shares outstanding is calculated by adding Duke Energy's weighted average number of basic shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and year ended December 31, 2010 (presented without consideration of the planned reverse stock split and also presented to adjust for the planned reverse stock split), and the number of Duke Energy shares expected to be issued to Progress Energy shareholders as a result of the merger (presented without consideration of the planned reverse stock split and also presented to adjust for the planned reverse stock split). The pro forma weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding is calculated by adding Duke Energy's weighted average number of diluted shares outstanding for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010 (presented without consideration of the planned reverse stock split and also presented to adjust for the planned reverse stock split), and the number of Duke Energy shares expected to be issued as a result of the merger (presented without consideration of the planned reverse stock split and also presented to adjust for the planned reverse stock split).
 
 
Adjustments to Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Balance Sheet
(g) Emission allowances and renewable energy certificates, accounted for as inventory by Progress Energy, have been reclassified as intangible assets within Investments and Other AssetsOther, to conform to Duke Energy's accounting policy (decrease of $2 million).
Inventory.
(h) Includes a pro forma net increase of $1,183 million each to regulatory assets and deferred debits and long-term debt, respectively, to reflect the fair values of debt instruments of Progress Energy's regulated subsidiaries, as described in Note 3(n). An estimate of the future amortization of this regulatory asset fair value adjustment over the next five years, which will offset a portion of the debt fair value adjustment amortization (related to regulated operations) described in Note 3(n), is as follows (in millions):
Regulatory Assets and Deferred Debits.
 
Also, regulatory assets and deferred debits were reduced by $22 million to eliminate deferred costs on parent company debt. Additional adjustments to regulatory assets are discussed in Note 3(m) (decrease to regulatory assets of $8 million), and Notes 3(o) and 3(p) (increase in regulatory assets of $371 million and $237 million, respectively).
 
 
(i) Reflects the preliminary estimate of the excess of the purchase price paid over the fair value of Progress Energy's identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. The estimated purchase price of the transaction, based on the closing price of Duke Energy's common stock on the NYSE on November 3, 2011, and the excess purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired is calculated as follows (in millions):
Goodwill.
 
The goodwill resulting from the merger, based on the preliminary purchase price, is estimated to be $9,990 million.
(j) Represents the pro forma adjustment to reflect the fair value of Progress Energy's emission allowances and renewable energy certificates at current market prices (increase of $20 million, offset with an increase in regulatory liabilities). Also includes the reclassification of emission allowances and renewable energy certificates from inventory (increase of $2 million, as described in Note 3(g)).
Other Long-Term Assets.
(k) . Represents the accrual for estimated non-recurring merger transaction costs of approximately $40 million for the combined companies to be incurred after September 30, 2011.
Accounts Payable
(l) . Primarily represents the estimated net deferred tax asset, based on the estimated post-merger composite domestic statutory tax rate of 39% multiplied by the fair value adjustments recorded to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, excluding goodwill. This estimated tax rate is different from Duke Energy's effective tax rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, and the year ended December 31, 2010, which includes other tax charges or benefits, and does not take into account any historical or possible future tax events that may impact the combined company.
Deferred Income Taxes
(m) Represents a pro forma adjustment to conform Progress Energy's accounting policy of presenting derivative mark-to-market and posted collateral amounts on a gross basis, with Duke Energy's accounting policy to net derivative mark-to-market and posted collateral amounts, when such amounts exist with the same counterparty under a master netting agreement. These adjustments resulted in decreases in various asset and liability accounts ($114 million in other current assets, $8 million in regulatory assets, $55 million in other current liabilities, and $67 million in other deferred credits and other liabilities).
Derivative Assets and Liabilities.
(n) In connection with the merger, Duke Energy will consolidate all of Progress Energy's outstanding debt. The pro forma adjustment represents the fair value adjustments to increase Progress Energy's parent company debt (current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt of $14 million and $773 million, respectively) and regulated companies' debt (current maturities of long-term debt and long-term debt of $22 million and $1,183 million, respectively) based on prevailing market prices for the individual debt securities as of September 30, 2011. The final fair value determination of the debt will be based on prevailing market prices at the completion of the merger. The resulting adjustment to the parent debt will be amortized as a reduction (if there continues to be a premium to book value) to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt, as described in Note 3(d). The portion of the adjustment related to Progress Energy's regulated company debt is offset by an increase to regulatory assets, and amortization of these adjustments will offset each other with no effect on earnings, as described in Note 3(h). An estimate of future amortization of the total fair value adjustments over the next five years is as follows (in millions):
Long-Term Debt.
 
 
 
(o) . Primarily represents changes to the funded status of Progress Energy's pension and postretirement benefit plans of $379 million, of which $371 million relates to regulated operations. This adjustment reflects the estimated valuations of liabilities using discount rates and asset fair values as of September 30, 2011. Also, as described in Note 3(m), includes a reduction of $67 million related to the pro forma adjustment to conform Progress Energy's accounting policy of presenting derivative mark-to-market and posted collateral amounts on a gross basis, with Duke Energy's accounting policy to net derivative mark-to-market and posted collateral amounts.
Other Liabilities
(p) The pro forma balance sheet reflects the elimination of Progress Energy's historical equity balances, including the components of accumulated other comprehensive income/loss ("AOCI") not related to the regulated operations ($64 million, net of tax), the reclassification of certain AOCI amounts related to regulated operations to regulatory assets ($143 million, net of tax, or $237 million, pre-tax), and recognition of approximately 771 million new Duke Energy common shares issued ($1 million of common stock at $0.001 par value and $16,034 million of additional paid-in capital). Amounts in additional paid-in capital also include $30 million to reflect the portion of the purchase price related to the total estimated fair value of stock compensation awards outstanding as of September 30, 2011, excluding the value associated with employee service yet to be rendered. As discussed in Note 2 and Note 3(f), the exchange ratio will be adjusted proportionately to reflect a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy common stock that Duke Energy plans to implement prior to, and is conditioned on, the completion of the merger. The reverse stock split will not change the amount of total shareholder's equity resulting from the merger.
Shareholders' Equity.
Additionally, retained earnings were reduced by $40 million (net of tax of $24 million, with the tax benefit reflected as an increase in other current assets and the pre-tax amount reflected in accounts payable) for estimated merger transaction costs of the combined companies directly related to the merger that would be expensed subsequent to September 30, 2011. Estimated merger transaction costs have been excluded from the pro forma income statement as they reflect non-recurring charges directly related to the merger.
 


