FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20110405075623.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 7.01.  Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On April 5, 2011, John Roebel, Senior Vice President of Generation Support at Duke Energy Corporation, will present during a panel discussion at the Bernstein 3
rd
 Annual Environmental Utilities Conference on the proposed requirements under section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act issued by the Environmental Protection Agency.  A copy of the presentation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)          Exhibits.
 
99.1         Presentation on EPA's Cooling Water Intake Proposed Rule.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Duke Energy Corporation
Non-GAAP Reconciliations
Bernstein Environmental Utilities Conference
April 5, 2011
 
2011 Adjusted Diluted EPS Outlook
 
The materials for Duke Energy's Bernstein Environmental Utilities Conference presentation on April 5, 2011, include a discussion of the forecasted 2011 adjusted diluted EPS outlook range of $1.35-$1.40 per share. Adjusted diluted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation shareholders, adjusted for the per-share impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting treatment, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment. The economic value of the generation assets is subject to fluctuations in fair value due to market price volatility of the input and output commodities (e.g., coal, power) and, as such, the economic hedging involves both purchases and sales of those input and output commodities related to the generation assets. Because the operations of the generation assets are accounted for under the accrual method, management believes that excluding the impact of mark-to-market changes of the economic hedge contracts from adjusted earnings until settlement better matches the financial impacts of the hedge contract with the portion of the economic value of the underlying hedged asset.  The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted diluted EPS is reported diluted EPS from continuing operations attributable to Duke Energy Corporation common shareholders, which includes the impact of special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for future periods, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 
Forecasted Adjusted Segment EBIT for 2011
 
The materials for Duke Energy's Bernstein Environmental Utilities Conference presentation on April 5, 2011, include a discussion of forecasted 2011 adjusted segment EBIT for Duke Energy's reportable segments as a percentage of forecasted adjusted total segment EBIT, based upon the original adjusted segment EBIT forecast embedded within the original forecasted 2011 adjusted diluted EPS outlook range of $1.35-$1.40 per share.
 
The primary performance measure used by management to evaluate segment performance is segment EBIT from continuing operations, which at the segment level represents all profits from continuing operations (both operating and non-operating), including any equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates, before deducting interest and taxes, and is net of the income attributable to non-controlling interests. Management believes segment EBIT from continuing operations, which is the GAAP measure used to report segment results, is a good indicator of each segment's operating performance as it represents the results of Duke Energy's ownership interests in continuing operations without regard to financing methods or capital structures.  Duke Energy also uses adjusted segment EBIT as a measure of historical and anticipated future segment performance. When used for future periods, adjusted segment EBIT may also include any amounts that may be reported as discontinued operations or extraordinary items.
 
Adjusted segment EBIT is a non-GAAP financial measure as it represents reported segment EBIT adjusted for the impact of special items and the mark-to market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Special items represent certain charges and credits which management believes will not be recurring on a regular basis, although it is reasonably possible such charges and credits could recur. Mark-to-market adjustments reflect the mark-to-market impact of derivative contracts, which is recognized in GAAP earnings immediately as such derivative contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting or regulatory accounting, used in Duke Energy's hedging of a portion of the economic value of certain of its generation assets in the Commercial Power segment (as discussed separately above under "2011 Adjusted Diluted EPS Outlook"). Management believes that the presentation of adjusted segment EBIT provides useful information to investors, as it provides them an additional relevant comparison of a segment's performance across periods. The most directly comparable GAAP measure for adjusted segment EBIT is reported segment EBIT, which represents segment results from continuing operations, including any special items and the mark-to-market impacts of economic hedges in the Commercial Power segment. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP financial measure for full year 2011, information to reconcile it to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time, as management is unable to project special items or mark-to-market adjustments for future periods.
 


