FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20111216172514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
x
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
  
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
  
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.04. Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
 
On December 16, 2011, Duke Energy Corporation ( "Duke Energy") sent a notice to its directors and executive officers informing them that a blackout period relating to the Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan, the Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan for Legacy Cinergy Union Employees (Midwest), and Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan for Legacy Cinergy Union Employees (IBEW 1393) (collectively, the "401(k) Plan"), which was originally expected to occur from the close of business on December 30, 2011 until sometime during the week of January 1, 2012, will no longer occur at that time.  The blackout period is required by the 401(k) Plan's recordkeeper, Fidelity Investments, in connection with a proposed 1-for-3 reverse stock split of Duke Energy's common stock, which will occur in connection with the proposed merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy, Inc. ("Progress Energy").  The notice, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, was provided by Duke Energy to its directors and executive officers pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Item 8.01.
                                         
Other Events
 
On December 14, 2011, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (the "FERC") issued an order rejecting the mitigation plan proposed by Duke Energy and Progress Energy on October 17, 2011 in connection with the proposed merger of the two companies.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                              
Exhibits.
 
99.1
                          
Notice to Duke Energy Corporation directors and executive officers regarding blackout period.
 
99.2
                          
Joint press release of Duke Energy and Progress Energy dated December 15, 2011 regarding
FERC order
.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
You were previously notified that, to help ensure the orderly and accurate implementation of the reverse stock split of Duke Energy Corporation ("Duke Energy") common stock in connection with the merger of Progress Energy, Inc. ("Progress Energy") and Duke Energy, there would be a period of time from the close of business on December 30, 2011 until sometime during the week of January 1, 2012 ("blackout period") when participants would be unable to initiate transactions relating to Duke Energy common stock held under the Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan, Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan for Legacy Cinergy Union Employees (Midwest) and Duke Energy Retirement Savings Plan for Legacy Cinergy Union Employees (IBEW 1393).  As a result of the anticipated blackout period, you were previously notified that, pursuant to Section 306 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, you generally would not be permitted to trade in Duke Energy common stock (or related securities) during the blackout period.
 
The date for the blackout period in the prior notice was based on an anticipated closing of the Duke Energy and Progress Energy merger on January 1, 2012.  The merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy is no longer anticipated to close on January 1, 2012.  As a result, the corresponding blackout period is no longer anticipated to commence or end on the dates provided in the prior notice.  You will be provided with updated information regarding the anticipated closing of the merger of Duke Energy and Progress Energy and the corresponding trading restriction when it is known.
 
If you have any questions about this notice or the required trading restriction, including whether the blackout period has begun or ended, you may obtain information, without charge, by contacting Duke Energy Corporation, Attention: Corporate Secretary, 550 South Tryon St., Charlotte, NC 28202 (telephone (704) 382-2204).
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
CHARLOTTE AND RALEIGH, N.C.  Below is a statement issued today by Duke Energy and Progress Energy.
 
"Duke Energy and Progress Energy announced today they remain committed to proceeding with their planned merger.
 
"The companies' legal and regulatory teams are currently reviewing the order issued late yesterday by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) related to the agency's concerns about market power. The companies are planning to submit a revised mitigation proposal as soon as the analysis of the commission's order is complete and after any required notice to the North Carolina and South Carolina commissions.
 
"The FERC's action changes the companies' timeline for closing the merger. The
 
 
earliest close date would be in March, but will ultimately depend upon the regulatory approval process. The companies are evaluating the regulatory calendar and will communicate a new target close date for planning purposes in the near future.
 
"The FERC ruling does not call into question the benefits of the merger. The combination of Duke Energy and Progress Energy will provide clear benefits for our customers, including overall lower corporate costs and $650 million in guaranteed benefits to customers in the Carolinas from the joint dispatch of the utilities' generation fleets and from power plant fuel savings."
 
To date, the companies have received merger-related approvals from, or met the requirements of, the:
 
       
U.S. Department of Justice
       
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
       
Federal Communications Commission
       
Kentucky Public Service Commission
       
Shareholders of both companies
 
About Duke Energy
Duke Energy is one of the largest electric power holding companies in the United States. Its
regulated utility operations serve approximately 4 million customers located in five states in the Southeast and Midwest, representing a population of approximately 12 million people. Its commercial power and international business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 500 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
About Progress Energy
Progress Energy (NYSE: PGN), headquartered in Raleigh, N.C., is a Fortune 500 energy company with more than 22,000 megawatts of generation capacity and approximately $10 billion in annual revenues. Progress Energy includes two major electric utilities that serve about 3.1 million customers in the Carolinas and Florida. The company has earned the Edison Electric Institute's Edison Award, the industry's highest  honor, in recognition of its operational excellence, and was the first utility to receive the prestigious J.D. Power and Associates Founder's Award for customer service. The company is pursuing a balanced strategy for a secure energy future, which includes aggressive energy-efficiency programs, investments in renewable energy technologies and a state-of-the-art electricity system. Progress Energy celebrated a century of service in 2008. Visit the company's website at www.progress-energy.com.
 
Forward-Looking Information
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "may," "will," "should," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and other words and terms of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Progress Energy and Duke Energy caution readers that any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statement. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the proposed merger involving Duke Energy and Progress Energy, including future financial and operating results, Progress Energy's or Duke Energy's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, the expected timing of completion of the transaction, and other statements that are not historical facts. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: the risk that Progress Energy or Duke Energy may be unable to obtain governmental and regulatory approvals required for the merger, or required governmental and regulatory approvals may delay the merger or result in the imposition of conditions that could cause the parties to abandon the merger; the risk that a condition to closing of the merger may not be satisfied; the timing to consummate the proposed merger; the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the diversion of management time on merger-related issues; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; and other factors discussed or referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of each of Progress Energy's and Duke Energy's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). These risks, as well as other risks associated with the merger, are more fully discussed in the joint proxy statement/prospectus that is included in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 that was filed by Duke Energy with the SEC in connection with the merger. Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Progress Energy's and Duke Energy's reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov/. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and neither Progress Energy nor Duke Energy undertakes any obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
In connection with the proposed merger between Duke Energy and Progress Energy, Duke Energy filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a joint proxy statement of Duke Energy and Progress Energy and that also constitutes a prospectus of Duke Energy. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on July 7, 2011. Duke Energy and Progress Energy mailed the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus to their respective shareholders on or about July 11, 2011. Duke Energy and Progress Energy urge investors and shareholders to read the Registration Statement, including the joint proxy statement/prospectus that is a part of the Registration Statement, as well as other relevant documents filed with the SEC, because they contain important information. You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (http://www.sec.gov/). You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Duke Energy's website (http://www.duke-energy.com/) under the heading "Investors" and then under the heading "Financials/SEC Filings." You may also obtain these documents, free of charge, from Progress Energy's website (http://www.progress-energy.com/) under the tab "Our Company" by clicking on "Investor Relations," then by clicking on "Corporate Profile" and then by clicking on "SEC Filings."


