FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20110510161807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
(a)
         
Duke Energy Corporation ("Duke Energy" or the "Corporation") held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting") on May 5, 2011.
 
(b)
        
At the Annual Meeting, shareholders elected all 11 of the directors nominated by the Board of Directors and ratified the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Corporation's independent public accountant for 2011.  Each director received a greater number of votes cast "for" his or her election than votes cast "against" his or her election as reflected below.  The shareholders approved, by a non-binding, advisory vote, the executive compensation of the Corporation's named executive officers, and also recommended, by a non-binding, advisory vote, an annual advisory vote regarding executive compensation.  Three shareholder proposals presented at the meeting were not approved.  For more information on the proposals, see Duke Energy's proxy statement dated March 17, 2011.  Set forth below are the final voting results for each of the proposals.
 
                 
Election of Director Nominees
 
 
                 
Proposal to ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as independent public accountant for 2011
 
 
                 
Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
 
 
                 
Advisory Vote on the Frequency of an Advisory Vote on Executive Compensation
 
 
                 
Shareholder proposal relating to preparation of a report on Duke Energy's global warming-related lobbying activities
 
 
                 
Shareholder proposal regarding the issuance of a report on the financial risks of continued reliance on coal
 
 
                 
Shareholder Proposal regarding an amendment to our organizational documents to require majority voting for the election of directors
 
 
(c)
         
Not applicable.
 
(d)
        
Based upon the results set forth above for the advisory vote on the frequency of future advisory votes on executive compensation, the Board of Directors has determined that future advisory votes on executive compensation will be submitted to shareholders on an annual basis.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


