FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20120224161328.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240. 13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
In connection with certain awards that may be granted from time to time under the Duke Energy Corporation 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan, Duke Energy Corporation has adopted the following Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement and Performance Award Agreement, copies of which are filed herewith as Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2, respectively, and incorporated by reference into this Item 5.02 as though fully set forth herein.
 
 
 
The following exhibits are filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of(the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and                                (the "Grantee").
Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement
                                 ,
Duke Energy Corporation
 
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the "Restricted Stock Units" and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
Section 1.
              .  The number of Restricted Stock Units and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each .  Each Restricted Stock Unit, upon becoming vested, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent represents a right to receive cash payments equivalent to the amount of cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Restricted Stock Units and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Number and Nature of Restricted Stock Units and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
                                                                    
 
Section 2.
             
Vesting of Restricted Stock Units
.  The specified percentage of the Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, and not previously forfeited, shall vest, with such percentage considered satisfied to the extent such Restricted Stock Units have previously vested, as follows:
 
(a)           Upon Grantee remaining continuously employed by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, through the specified anniversary of the Date
of Grant (each a "Vesting Date"), with respect to the percentage of Restricted Stock Units set forth next to such date:
 
 
For purposes of vesting under this Section 2(a), if such employment terminates upon Retirement, which is defined as termination at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or the delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, then Grantee's employment shall be considered to continue, with continued vesting under this Section 2(a), unless the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, in which case any such Restricted Stock Units not previously vested, or vested by application of the following sentence shall be forfeited, or unless the Grantee dies, in which case the Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award shall vest in accordance with the following sentences.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of Grantee's death or (ii) as the result of Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), all Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award, which units have not previously been forfeited or vested, immediately shall become fully vested.  If such employment terminates (i) as the result of termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee or (ii) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award shall vest at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating from the above schedule to reflect only that portion of the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending with the third (3
rd
) anniversary of the Date of Grant during which such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary, and any such Restricted Stock Units not then or previously vested shall be forfeited.
 
Unless the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, in the event that at a time when vesting would otherwise occur under this Section 2(a) Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before January 14 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the leave commenced.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to January 14 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the leave commenced, any Restricted Stock Units covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).
 
(b)           100%, if, following the occurrence of a Change in Control and before the second anniversary of such occurrence, such employment is terminated involuntarily, and not for cause, by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, as determined by the Committee or its delegatee in its sole discretion.
 
Section 3
.             
Restrictive Covenants
.
 
(a)  In consideration of the Award, Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not for any reason, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Corporation or its delegatee: (i) become employed, engaged or involved with a competitor (defined below) of the Corporation or any Subsidiary in a position that involves: providing services that relate to or are
similar in nature or purpose to the services performed by the Grantee for the Corporation or any Subsidiary at any time during his or her previous three years of employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary; or, supervision, management, direction or advice regarding such services; either as principal, agent, manager, employee, partner, shareholder, director, officer or consultant (other than as a less-than three percent (3%) equity owner of any corporation traded on any national, international or regional stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market); or, (ii) induce or attempt to induce any customer, client, supplier, employee, agent or independent contractor of the Corporation or any of the Subsidiaries to reduce, terminate, restrict or otherwise alter (to the Corporation's detriment) its business relationship with the Corporation.
(b)           The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be effective only with respect to a "competitor" of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is understood to mean any person or entity in competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, and more particularly those persons and entities in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas: (i) any country in the world (other than the United States) where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least $25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including through its Subsidiaries; (ii) the states of California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Vermont, Wisconsin and Wyoming (iii) any other state in the United States where the Corporation including the Subsidiaries, has at least $25 million in capital deployed as of the termination of the Grantee's employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including geographical areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including geographical areas.
 
(c)           Grantee agrees not to: (i) disclose to any third party or otherwise misappropriate any confidential or proprietary information of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary (except as required by subpoena or other legal process, in which event the Grantee will give the Chief Legal Officer of the Corporation prompt notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit the Corporation or any affected individual to seek appropriate protective orders); or, (ii) publish or provide any oral or written statements about the Corporation or any Subsidiary, any of the Corporation's or any Subsidiary's current or former officers, executives, directors, employees, agents or representatives that are false, disparaging or defamatory, or that disclose private or confidential information about their business or personal affairs.   The obligations of this paragraph are in addition to, and do not replace, eliminate, or reduce in any way, all other contractual, statutory, or common law obligations Grantee may have to protect the Corporation's confidential information and trade secrets and to avoid defamation or business disparagement.
 
(d)           Notwithstanding any other provision of Section 3, the Grantee remains free to report or otherwise communicate any nuclear safety concern, any workplace safety concern, or any public safety concern to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, United States Department of Labor, or any other appropriate governmental agency without providing the notice described in Section 3(c), and the Grantee remains free to participate in any governmental proceeding or investigation without providing the notice described in Section 3(c).
 
(e)           If any part of this Section is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or geographical area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or geographical area.
 
(f)            Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee from being retained during the
Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee from providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
(g)           Grantee's agreement to the restrictions provided for in this Agreement and the Corporation's agreement to provide the Award are mutually dependent consideration. Therefore, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Agreement, if the enforceability of any material restriction on Grantee provided for in this Agreement is challenged and found unenforceable by a court of law then the Corporation shall, at its election, have the right to recover from Grantee the Award, or the Award's fair market value received by Grantee on the date of sale, transfer, or other disposition if Grantee has sold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the Award.   This provision shall be construed as a return of consideration or ill-gotten gains due to the failure of Grantee's promises under the Agreement, and not as a liquidated damages clause.  Nothing herein shall (i) reduce or eliminate the Corporation's right to assert that the restrictions provided for in this agreement are fully enforceable as written, or as modified by a court pursuant to Section 3, or (ii) eliminate, reduce, or compromise the application of temporary or permanent injunctive relief as a fully appropriate and applicable remedy to enforce the restrictions provided for in Section 3 (inclusive of its subparts), in addition to recovery of damages or other remedies otherwise allowed by law.
 
Section 4.             
Forfeiture
.  Any Restricted Stock Unit subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the time the Restricted Stock Unit with respect to which the Dividend Equivalent is in tandem (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, or (ii) is forfeited.
 
Section 5.
             
Dividend Equivalent Payments
.  Payments with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall be paid in cash to the Grantee within 60 days after the time cash dividends are declared and paid with respect to the Common Stock on or after the Date of Grant and before the Dividend Equivalent expires, but in no event later than the calendar year in which the dividends are declared and paid.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Any required income tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Restricted Stock Units shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion, requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
 
Section 6.             
Payment of Restricted Stock Units
.  Payment of Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee as soon as practicable following the time such units become vested in accordance with Section 2 but in no event later than 60 days following such vesting, except to the extent deferred by Grantee in accordance with such procedures as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time or except to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent the Grantee's right to receive payment of the Restricted Stock Units constitutes a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, including due to the fact that the Grantee is or could become eligible for Retirement during the vesting period of this Award, then notwithstanding the first sentence of this Section 6, except in the event that the Grantee's employment terminates as a result of death, payment of vested Restricted Stock Units subject to this Award shall be made to the Grantee within 60 days following the applicable Vesting Date(s) as provided in Section 2(a).  Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full Restricted Stock Unit and any fractional Restricted Stock Unit shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Restricted Stock Units became vested, or if later, payable.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that
would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Restricted Stock Unit became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.  In the event that payment, after any such reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Restricted Stock Units became vested, or if later, payable.
 
Section 7.
             
No Employment Rights
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment by the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
 
Section 8.
             
Nonalienation
.  The Restricted Stock Units and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by the Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Restricted Stock Unit or Dividend Equivalent or right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
 
Section 9.             
Determinations
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
Section 10.           
Governing Law
.  The validity and construction of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state of Delaware applicable to transactions taking place entirely within that state.
 
Section 11.
           
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
.  In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect a Restricted Stock Unit Award properly granted to Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.  For purposes of clarity, a Restricted Stock Unit is equivalent to a share of Phantom Stock within the meaning of the Plan.
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to
him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 60 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
Section 12.           
Compliance with Law
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than , has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department  Restricted Stock Units [(DEC38C)], Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1321, Charlotte, NC 28201-1321, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
                      ,                      
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
 
 
 
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this            day of                         ,                  .
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
This (the "Agreement") has been made as of (the "Date of Grant") between , a Delaware corporation, with its principal offices in Charlotte, North Carolina (the "Corporation"), and (the "Grantee").
Performance Award Agreement
                                
Duke Energy Corporation
                                
 
Under the Duke Energy Corporation 2010 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as it may, from time to time, be further amended (the "Plan"), the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the "Committee"), or its delegatee, has determined the form of this Agreement and selected the Grantee, as an Employee, to receive the award evidenced by this Agreement (the "Award") and the Performance Shares and tandem Dividend Equivalents that are subject hereto.  The applicable provisions of the Plan are incorporated in this Agreement by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the Plan (unless such terms are otherwise defined herein).
 
In accordance with the Plan, the Corporation has made this Award, effective as of the Date of Grant and upon the following terms and conditions:
 
Section 1.
              .  At target performance, the number of Performance Shares and the number of tandem Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are each                                                             .  Each Performance Share, upon becoming vested, represents a right to receive payment in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock.  Each tandem Dividend Equivalent, after its tandem Performance Share vests, represents a right to receive a cash payment equivalent in amount to the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid on one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents are used solely as units of measurement, and are not shares of Common Stock and the Grantee is not, and has no rights as, a shareholder of the Corporation by virtue of this Award.
Number and Nature of Performance Shares and Tandem Dividend Equivalents
 
Section 2.
             
Vesting of Performance Shares
.
 
(a) .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, the Performance Shares shall vest only if and to the extent the Committee, or its delegatee, determines that the Performance Goals (as defined below) have been met (provided that such determination shall be made not later than the first March 15 following the end of the Performance Period, as defined below).  To the extent Performance Goals are not met, the Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.  The Committee reserves the right to reduce any vesting to the extent the Committee determines that such reduction is equitable and appropriate for any reason.
Performance Goals
 
(i)            The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), up to one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "TSR Performance Goal," which is the Corporation's Total Shareholder Return ("TSR") percentile ranking among the companies that are in the Philadelphia Utility Index as of the end of the Performance Period, with higher percentile ranking for more positive/less negative TSR, for the period beginningand ending("Performance Period"),  in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for such percentile ranking in the following schedule:
                             
                             
 
 
 
*When such determination is of a percentile ranking between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
 
Such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.  For purposes of this Agreement, TSR means the change in fair market value over a specified period of time, expressed as a percentage, of an initial investment in specified common stock, with dividends reinvested, all as determined utilizing such methodology as the Committee, or its delegatee, shall approve, provided, however, that the Committee, or its delegatee, shall have the discretion to make appropriate and equitable adjustments to the TSR of any company (including the Corporation) whose shares trade ex-dividend as of                                      , provided, however, that no such adjustment shall be permitted if it would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code.  In the event that a company becomes a member of the Philadelphia Utility Index following                                      , such company shall not be taken into account for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(ii)           The following Performance Goal shall apply with respect to one-half of the Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents covered by this Agreement.  Provided Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has not terminated, or as otherwise provided in Sections 2(b) or 2(c), up to one-half of the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall become vested upon the written determination by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, of the extent to which the Corporation achieves the "ROE Performance Goal," which is based on the Corporation's return on equity ("ROE"), as calculated in accordance with , for the Performance Period, in accordance with the applicable vesting percentage specified for ROE in the following schedule:
Exhibit A
 
 
*When such determination is at a level between those specified, the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, shall interpolate to determine the applicable vesting percentage.
 
Such Performance Shares that do not so become vested shall be forfeited.  If the Committee determines that a merger, including without limitation the proposed merger with Progress Energy, Inc., consolidation, liquidation, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, spin-off, split-off, stock split, reverse stock split or other distribution with respect to the shares of Common Stock, or any similar corporate transaction or event in respect of the Common Stock, the manner in which the Corporation conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the ROE Performance Goal to be unsuitable, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, and without the consent of the Grantee or any other persons, modify the calculation of the ROE Performance Goal, or any of the related minimum, target or maximum levels of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems equitable and appropriate to reflect such event; , , that no such action may result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the Award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided
however
 
(b) In the event that, prior to the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, the Performance Shares subject to this Award are thereupon forfeited, except that if such employment terminates (i) at a time when Grantee has attained age 55 and has at least five years of vesting service under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, or under another retirement plan of the Corporation or a Subsidiary which plan the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines to be the functional equivalent of the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan or the Cinergy Corp. Non-Union Employees' Pension Plan, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, (ii) as the result of the Grantee's death, (iii) as the result of the Grantee's permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 22(e)(3), (iv) as the result of the termination of such employment by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, other than for cause, as determined by the Corporation or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, or (v) as the direct and sole result, as determined by the Corporation, or employing Subsidiary, in its sole discretion, of the divestiture of assets, a business, or a company, by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating on the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that such employment continued while Grantee was entitled to payment of salary (unless such termination occurs after the end of the Performance Period, in which event the number of Performance Shares earned, if
any, shall not be prorated).
 
In the event that Grantee is on an employer-approved, personal leave of absence on the date that the determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal is made, then, unless prohibited by law, vesting shall be postponed and shall not occur unless and until Grantee returns to active service in accordance with the terms of the approved personal leave of absence and before November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends.  In the event Grantee does not return to active service from such leave of absence prior to November 1 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the Performance Period ends, any Performance Shares covered by this Award that were not vested as of the commencement of such leave shall be immediately forfeited (as if Grantee terminated employment for purposes of Section 4 hereof).   Further, in the event that such determination is made and during any portion of the Performance Period the Grantee was on employer-approved, personal leave of absence, the applicable vesting percentage shall be determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to reflect only that portion of the Performance Period during which such employment continued while the Grantee was entitled to payment of salary.
 
(c) In the event that a Change in Control occurs before the Performance Period has ended and (i) before the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, terminates, or (ii) after such employment terminates during the Performance Period, (A) at a time when Grantee is considered "retired", unless the Corporation, in its sole discretion, determines that Grantee is in violation of any obligation identified in Section 3, or (B) as the result of an event listed in items (ii)  (v) of the first sentence of Section 2(b), the Performance Shares subject to this Award shall vest upon such occurrence, at such vesting percentage determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, by prorating down, assuming performance at the target level for each Performance Goalon the basis of the portion of the Performance Period that has elapsed prior to the time of such occurrence (or such earlier termination of employment), and the remaining Performance Shares shall be forfeited, irrespective of any subsequent determination of the achievement of each Performance Goal.
,
 
Section 3
.              .
Restrictive Covenants
 
(a)       In consideration of the Award, Grantee agrees that during the period beginning with termination of employment and ending with the third anniversary of the Date of Grant ("Restricted Period"), Grantee shall not for any reason, directly or indirectly, without the prior written consent of the Corporation or its delegatee: (i) become employed, engaged or involved with a competitor (defined below) of the Corporation or any Subsidiary in a position that involves: providing services that relate to or are similar in nature or purpose to the services performed by the Grantee for the Corporation or any Subsidiary at any time during his or her previous three years of employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary; or, supervision, management, direction or advice regarding such services; either as principal, agent, manager, employee, partner, shareholder, director, officer or consultant (other than as a less-than three percent (3%) equity owner of any corporation traded on any national, international or regional stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market); or, (ii) induce or attempt to induce any customer, client, supplier, employee, agent or independent contractor of the Corporation or any of the Subsidiaries to reduce, terminate, restrict or otherwise alter (to the Corporation's detriment) its business relationship with the Corporation.
 
(b)       The noncompetition obligations of clause (i) of the preceding sentence shall be effective only with respect to a "competitor" of the Corporation or any Subsidiary which is understood to mean any person or entity in competition with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, and more particularly those persons and entities in the businesses of:  production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and operation of power generation facilities, and sales and marketing of electric power, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, is engaged at the termination of Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries; and within the following geographical areas: (i) any country in the world (other than the United States) where the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, has at least $25 million in capital deployed as of termination of Grantee's continuous employment by Corporation, including through its Subsidiaries; (ii) the states of California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Mississippi, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Texas, Vermont, Wisconsin and Wyoming (iii) any other state in the United States where the Corporation including the Subsidiaries, has at least $25 million in capital deployed as of the termination of the Grantee's employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary.  The Corporation and Grantee intend the above restrictions on competition in geographical areas to be entirely severable and independent, and any invalidity or enforceability of this provision with respect to any one or more of such restrictions, including geographical areas, shall not render this provision unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other restrictions, including geographical areas.
 
(c)        Grantee agrees not to: (i) disclose to any third party or otherwise misappropriate any confidential or proprietary information of the Corporation or of any Subsidiary (except as required by subpoena or other legal process, in which event the Grantee will give the Chief Legal Officer of the Corporation prompt notice of such subpoena or other legal process in order to permit the Corporation or any affected individual to seek appropriate protective orders); or, (ii) publish or provide any oral or written statements about the Corporation or any Subsidiary, any of the Corporation's or any Subsidiary's current or former officers, executives, directors, employees, agents or representatives that are false, disparaging or defamatory, or that disclose private or confidential information about their business or personal affairs.   The obligations of this paragraph are in addition to, and do not replace, eliminate, or reduce in any way, all other contractual, statutory, or common law obligations Grantee may have to protect the Corporation's confidential information and trade secrets and to avoid defamation or business disparagement.
 
(d)       Notwithstanding any other provision of Section 3, the Grantee remains free to report or otherwise communicate any nuclear safety concern, any workplace safety concern, or any public safety concern to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, United States Department of Labor, or any other appropriate governmental agency without providing the notice described in Section 3(c), and the Grantee remains free to participate in any governmental proceeding or investigation without providing the notice described in Section 3(c).
 
(e)       If any part of this Section is held to be unenforceable because of the duration, scope or geographical area covered, the Corporation and Grantee agree to modify such part, or that the court making such holding shall have the power to modify such part, to reduce its duration, scope or geographical area.
 
(f)        Nothing in Section 3 shall be construed to prohibit Grantee from being retained during the Restricted Period in a capacity as an attorney licensed to practice law, or to restrict Grantee from providing advice and counsel in such capacity, in any jurisdiction where such prohibition or restriction is contrary to law.
 
(g)       Grantee's agreement to the restrictions provided for in this Agreement and the Corporation's agreement to provide the Award are mutually dependent consideration. Therefore, notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary in this Agreement, if the enforceability of any material restriction on Grantee provided for in this Agreement is challenged and found unenforceable by a court of law then the Corporation shall, at its election, have the right to recover from Grantee the Award, or the Award's fair market value received by Grantee on the date of sale, transfer, or other disposition if Grantee has sold, transferred, or otherwise disposed of the Award.   This provision shall be construed as a return of consideration or ill-gotten gains due to the failure of Grantee's promises under the Agreement, and not as a liquidated damages clause.  Nothing herein shall (i) reduce or eliminate the Corporation's right to assert that the restrictions provided for in this agreement are fully enforceable as written, or as modified by a court pursuant to Section 3, or (ii) eliminate, reduce, or compromise the application of temporary or permanent injunctive relief as a fully appropriate and applicable remedy to enforce the restrictions provided for in Section 3 (inclusive of its subparts), in addition to recovery of damages or other remedies otherwise allowed by law.
 
Section 4.             
Forfeiture
.  Any Performance Share subject to this Award shall be forfeited upon the termination of the Grantee's continuous employment by the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, from the Date of Grant, except to the extent otherwise provided in Section 2.  Any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award shall expire at the
time its tandem Performance Share (i) is vested and paid, or deferred, or (ii) is forfeited. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, this Award shall be forfeited automatically and shall be void in the event that the Grantee volunteers to terminate employment with the Corporation, including Subsidiaries, pursuant to the Duke Energy Corporation 2010 Voluntary Opportunity Plan.
 
Section 5.
             
Dividend Equivalent Payment
.  Payment with respect to any Dividend Equivalent subject to this Award that is in tandem with a Performance Share that is vested and paid shall be paid in cash to the Grantee at the same time as the vested Performance Share as provided in Section 6, or, if the vested Performance Share is deferred by Grantee as provided in Section 6, payment with respect to the tandem Dividend Equivalent shall likewise be deferred.  The Dividend Equivalent payment amount shall equal the aggregate cash dividends declared and paid with respect to one (1) share of Common Stock for the period beginning on the Date of Grant and ending on the date the vested, tandem Performance Share is paid or deferred and before the Dividend Equivalent expires.  However, should the timing of a particular payment under Section 6 to the Grantee in shares of Common Stock in conjunction with the timing of a particular cash dividend declared and paid on Common Stock be such that the Grantee receives such shares without the right to receive such dividend and the Grantee would not otherwise be entitled to payment under the expiring Dividend Equivalent with respect to such dividend, the Grantee, nevertheless, shall be entitled to such payment.  Dividend Equivalent payments shall be subject to withholding for taxes. Any required income tax withholdings in respect of Dividend Equivalents attributable to Performance Shares shall be satisfied by reducing the cash payment in respect of the required withholding amount, unless the Committee, or its delegatee, in its discretion, requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.
 
Section 6.             
Payment of Performance Shares
.   Payment of Performance Shares subject to this Award that become vested shall be made to the Grantee on the earlier of: (i) the calendar year immediately following the Performance Period, or (ii) within 30 days after the occurrence of a "change in the ownership," a "change in the effective control" or a "change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets" of the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, except to the extent deferred by the Grantee in accordance with such procedures as the Committee, or its delegatee, may prescribe from time to time or except to the extent required to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  Payment (or deferrals, as applicable) shall be subject to withholding for taxes.  Payment shall be in the form of one (1) share of Common Stock for each full vested Performance Share, and any fractional vested Performance Share shall be rounded up to the next whole share for purposes of both vesting under Section 2 and payment under Section 6.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the number of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid or deferred (valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Share became vested, or if later, payable) shall be reduced by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, to fully satisfy tax withholding requirements, unless the Committee, or its delegate, in its discretion requires Grantee to satisfy such tax obligation by other payment to the Corporation.  In the event that payment, after any reduction in the number of shares of Common Stock to satisfy withholding for tax requirements, would be for less than ten (10) shares of Common Stock, then, if so determined by the Committee, or its delegatee, in its sole discretion, payment, instead of being made in shares of Common Stock, shall be made in a cash amount equal in value to the shares of Common Stock that would otherwise be paid, valued at Fair Market Value on the date the respective Performance Shares became vested.
 
Section 7.
             
No Employment Right
.  Nothing in this Agreement or in the Plan shall confer upon the Grantee the right to continued employment with the Corporation or any Subsidiary, or affect the right of the Corporation or any Subsidiary to terminate the employment or service of the Grantee at any time for any reason.
 
Section 8.
             
Nonalienation
.  The Performance Shares and Dividend Equivalents subject to this Award are not assignable or transferable by Grantee.  Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate, sell or otherwise dispose of any such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, or upon the levy of any attachment or similar process upon such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or upon such right or privilege, such Performance Share or Dividend Equivalent, or such right or privilege, shall immediately become null and void.
 
Section 9.             
Determinations
.  Determinations by the Committee, or its delegatee, shall be final and conclusive with respect to the interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement.
 
Section 10.           
Governing Law
.  This Agreement shall be governed, construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware applicable to transactions that take place entirely within that state.
 
Section 11
.            . 
Conflicts with Plan, Correction of Errors, Section 409A and Grantee's Consent
In the event that any provision of this Agreement conflicts in any way with a provision of the Plan, such Plan provision shall be
controlling and the applicable provision of this Agreement shall be without force and effect to the extent necessary to cause such Plan provision to be controlling.  In the event that, due to administrative error, this Agreement does not accurately reflect an Award properly granted to the Grantee pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation, acting through its Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, reserves the right to cancel any erroneous document and, if appropriate, to replace the cancelled document with a corrected document.  It is the intention of the Corporation and the Grantee that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Code Section 409A.  Accordingly, Grantee consents to such amendment of this Agreement as the Corporation may reasonably make in furtherance of such intention, and the Corporation shall promptly provide, or make available to, Grantee a copy of any such amendment.
 
To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and that this Award not result in unfavorable tax consequences to Grantee under Section 409A of the Code.  This Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause this Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code).  The Corporation and the Grantee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A of the Code including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that the Corporation shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden.  Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the Grantee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Corporation for purposes of this Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under this Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from the Corporation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.  To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Grantee's termination of employment shall instead be paid within 30 days following the first business day after the date that is six months following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier).  In addition, for purposes of this Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Grantee pursuant to this Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.
 
Grantee acknowledges and agrees that payments made under this Agreement are subject to the Corporation's requirement that the Grantee reimburse the portion of any payment where such portion of the payment was predicated upon the achievement of financial results that are subsequently the subject of a restatement caused or partially caused by Grantee's fraud or misconduct.
 
Section 12.           
Compliance with Law
.  The Corporation shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws applicable to the Plan and this Award; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Award, the Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Award if the delivery thereof would result in a violation of any such law.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Award is subject to cancellation by the Corporation in its sole discretion unless the Grantee, by not later than, has signed a duplicate of this Agreement, in the space provided below, and returned the signed duplicate to the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department - Performance Award [(DEC38C)], Duke Energy Corporation, P. O. Box 1321, Charlotte, NC 28201-1321, which, if, and to the extent, permitted by the Executive Compensation and Benefits Department, may be accomplished by electronic means.
                   ,            
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Agreement to be executed and granted in Charlotte, North Carolina, to be effective as of the Date of Grant.
 
 
IN WITNESS OF Grantee's acceptance of this Performance Award and Grantee's agreement to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, Grantee has signed this Agreement this            day of                                           ,          .
 


