FILE:DUK/DUK-8K-20120703170745.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 2, 2012, pursuant to the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 8, 2011 (the ""), by and among Duke Energy Corporation (""), Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy (""), and Progress Energy, Inc. (""), Duke Energy completed its acquisition of Progress Energy. The acquisition was accomplished through the merger of Merger Sub with and into Progress Energy (the ""), as a result of which the separate corporate existence of Merger Sub ceased, with Progress Energy continuing as the surviving entity in the Merger and a wholly owned subsidiary of Duke Energy.
Merger Agreement
Duke Energy
Merger Sub
Progress Energy
Merger
Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, each share of Progress Energy common stock, no par value per share (""), issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (except for shares of Progress Energy Common Stock owned by Progress Energy (other than in a fiduciary capacity), Duke Energy or Merger Sub) was cancelled and converted into the right to receive 0.87083 shares (the "") of Duke Energy common stock, par value $0.001 per share (""). The Exchange Ratio reflects an adjustment to account for the 1-for-3 Reverse Stock Split described in Item 5.03 of this Current Report on Form 8-K. Former shareholders of Progress Energy (other than shareholders who held their Progress Energy Common Stock through Progress Energy's Direct Registration System or the Progress Energy Investor Plus Plan) will receive cash for any fractional shares of Duke Energy Common Stock to which they might otherwise be entitled as a result of the Merger. Based on the number of shares of Progress Energy Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, former holders of Progress Energy Common Stock have the right to receive up to approximately 257.9 million shares of Duke Energy Common Stock pursuant to the Merger, in the aggregate, subject to adjustment for the payment of cash-in-lieu of fractional shares, as described in the preceding sentence. As a result of the completion of the Merger, Progress Energy's Annual Meeting of Shareholders, originally scheduled for August 8, 2012, will not be held.
Progress Energy Common Stock
Exchange Ratio
Duke Energy Common Stock
At the effective time of the Merger, each option to purchase shares of Progress Energy Common Stock that was granted under the Progress Energy employee stock option plans and that was outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger was converted into an option to acquire a number of shares of Duke Energy Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Progress Energy Common Stock subject to the Progress Energy stock option immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger multiplied by the Exchange Ratio, rounded down to the nearest whole share of Duke Energy Common Stock, with an exercise price per share of Duke Energy Common Stock equal to the exercise price per share under such Progress Energy stock option divided by the Exchange Ratio, rounded up to the nearest cent. Also upon completion of the Merger, each Progress Energy restricted share, Progress Energy restricted stock unit, Progress Energy performance share or other Progress Energy equity award was converted into an award in respect of a number of shares of Duke Energy Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Progress Energy Common Stock represented by such award multiplied by the Exchange Ratio.
Except as set forth above, each converted Progress Energy stock option, Progress Energy restricted share, Progress Energy restricted stock unit, Progress Energy performance share or other Progress Energy equity award is subject to the same terms and conditions, including vesting, as were applicable to the corresponding Progress Energy stock option, Progress Energy restricted share, Progress Energy restricted stock unit, Progress Energy performance share or other Progress Energy equity award immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, the compensation committee of the Duke Energy board of directors expects to adjust the performance measures applicable to performance shares as it determines appropriate and equitable to reflect the
 
performance of Progress Energy during the performance measurement period prior to the effective time of the Merger, the transactions undertaken pursuant to the Merger Agreement and the performance measures under awards made to similarly situated Duke Energy employees for the same or comparable performance cycle.
The foregoing description of the Merger and the Merger Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Merger Agreement, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "") on January 11, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.
SEC
 
In conjunction with the Merger, in August 2011, Duke Energy and Progress Energy announced plans to offer a voluntary severance plan ("VSP") to certain of their respective eligible employees. Approximately 1,150 employees accepted the termination benefits during the voluntary window period, which closed on November 30, 2011. The estimated amount of voluntary severance payments, which were contingent upon the successful completion of the Merger, is approximately $170 million.
Total severance payments associated with the Merger, including the VSP, a potential involuntary severance plan and severance payments payable to Mr. Johnson described in Item 5.02 of this Current Report on Form 8-K (which description is incorporated herein by reference), are estimated to be between $225 million and $275 million. Substantially all severance payments referred to above will be paid in cash and are expected to be paid in 2012 and 2013 after completion of the applicable service period for each employee.
 
Appointment of Principal Executive Officer of Duke Energy
In connection with the Merger described in Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, effective as of the effective time of the Merger, William D. Johnson, the former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, was appointed as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy.
Mr. Johnson, age 58, was Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, from October 2007 through July 2, 2012. Mr. Johnson was also Chairman of Carolina Power & Light Company (d/b/a Progress Energy Carolinas, Inc.) ("") and Florida Power Corporation (d/b/a Progress Energy Florida, Inc.) (""). Mr. Johnson previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Progress Energy, from January 2005 to October 2007.
PEC
PEF
Mr. Johnson subsequently resigned as the President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy. See disclosure below under the heading "Resignation of Mr. Johnson and Reappointment of Mr. Rogers."
Employment Agreement with William D. Johnson
On June 27, 2012, Duke Energy entered into a three-year employment agreement with
 
William D. Johnson (the "") that provided for his employment as Duke Energy's President and Chief Executive Officer and President, effective as of the closing of the Merger on July 2, 2012. The Johnson Employment Agreement was based on the terms set forth on the term sheet by and among Duke Energy, Merger Sub and Mr. Johnson that was executed at the time that the Merger Agreement was entered into.
Johnson Employment Agreement
The Johnson Employment Agreement provided for an annual base salary of $1,100,000, an annual short-term target bonus opportunity equal to 125% of his then current annual base salary and an annual long-term target opportunity of 500% of his then current annual base salary.
Upon a termination of Mr. Johnson's employment by Duke Energy without cause or by Mr. Johnson for good reason, following the closing of the Merger but prior to the second anniversary of such closing, the Johnson Employment Agreement provided for (upon execution of a release of claims) severance benefits that are substantially the same as those provided under the Progress Management Change-in-Control Plan (the ""), except that he would not be entitled to an excise tax gross-up relating to Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the ""). The CIC Plan provided Mr. Johnson, upon a qualifying termination of employment, with three times the sum of his annual base salary and target annual cash bonus, the cost of up to three years of continued benefits, 100% of his target annual cash bonus opportunity for the year in which the termination occurred and vesting of all unvested equity awards outstanding prior to the termination (with all performance shares held by Mr. Johnson vesting at "target level" of performance).
CIC Plan
Code
As a condition to entering into the Johnson Employment Agreement, Mr. Johnson agreed to waive certain rights with respect to good reason under the CIC Plan and to constructive termination under his then current employment agreement with Progress Energy.
The foregoing summary of the Johnson Employment Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Johnson Employment Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto, and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Resignation of Mr. Johnson and Reappointment of Mr. Rogers
On July 3, 2012, Duke Energy announced that Mr. Johnson has resigned from all of his positions at Duke Energy and will no longer serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy or as a member of Duke Energy's Board of Directors (the ""), effective as of 12:01 a.m. on July 3, 2012 (the ""). Also, on July 2, 2012, the Board reappointed Mr. James E. Rogers as President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy, effective as of 12:01 a.m. on July 3, 2012, in addition to his role as Chairman of the Board. Mr. Rogers previously served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Duke Energy from the date of its merger with Cinergy Corp. in 2006 until the closing of Duke Energy's merger with Progress Energy on July 2, 2012.
Duke Energy Board
Effective Date
Rogers Employment Agreement
In connection with Mr. Rogers' reappointment, Mr. Rogers and the Company agreed that the amendment to his preexisting employment agreement, that he had previously entered into to reflect his position as Executive Chairman effective as of the closing of the Merger, would be null and void, and that his preexisting employment agreement would continue in full force and effect without regard to such amendment.
 
Separation Agreement with Mr. Johnson
In connection with Mr. Johnson's resignation, on the Effective Date, Mr. Johnson and Duke Energy entered into a separation and settlement agreement (the ""). Pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement, in consideration for a release of claims from Mr. Johnson, his agreement to cooperate with Duke Energy with respect to transition matters and Mr. Johnson's agreement to non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement and confidentiality covenants, Mr. Johnson will be entitled to the benefits to be provided upon a resignation of employment for "good reason" pursuant to the Johnson Employment Agreement, described above under the heading "Employment Agreement with William D. Johnson," including a cash severance payment of $7,425,000, which is equal to three times the sum of Mr. Johnson's annual base salary and target annual cash bonus as of the Effective Date, a cash payment of $1,375,000, representing Mr. Johnson's target annual cash bonus for 2012, measured as of the Effective Date, continued health and welfare benefits, reimbursement for relocation expenses and accelerated vesting of all his equity compensation awards.
Separation Agreement
In addition, in consideration of the various covenants identified above, Mr. Johnson is eligible to receive a lump sum payment equal to the lesser of (i) $1.5 million or (ii) the portion of the $1.5 million that, when aggregated with the other payments that are contingent upon a change in control, would not be an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code. In the event that Mr. Johnson is not entitled to any payments under the preceding sentence, Duke Energy will make a $500,000 payment to Mr. Johnson and, to the extent any payment under the Separation Agreement would constitute an "excess parachute payment" and result in an excise tax under the golden parachute tax rules, Duke Energy would provide a payment to place Mr. Johnson in the same position as if no excise tax had been triggered in accordance with the terms of the CIC Plan. In addition, Mr. Johnson will be entitled to his accrued and unpaid benefits under Progress Energy's retirement and deferred compensation plans. These benefits were earned during Mr. Johnson's employment with Progress Energy and will not be enhanced or increased as a result of the Separation Agreement, but will be paid according to the terms of the applicable plan or arrangement based on Mr. Johnson's service and compensation prior to his resignation.
The foregoing description of the Separation Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Separation Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 hereto, and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Amendment to the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Cash Balance Plan
In connection with the Merger described in Item 2.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, on July 2, 2012, the Compensation Committee of the Duke Energy Board amended the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Cash Balance Plan (the "") to provide that the portion of the Progress Energy Supplemental Senior Executive Retirement Plan (the "") relating to the ten active participants in the Progress Supplemental Plan (the "") is merged into the ECBP, resulting in the nonqualified retirement benefits that were originally to be provided to the Progress Participants under the Progress Supplemental Plan, to be instead provided pursuant to the amended ECBP. Consistent with the terms of the Merger Agreement, the amended ECBP provides that the Progress Participants will participate in the ECBP and, subject to the terms and conditions of the amended ECBP, be entitled to nonqualified retirement benefits equal to the greater of (A) the sum of (i) the accrued benefit under the Progress Supplemental Plan frozen as of the closing of the Merger (based on applicable service and compensation earned prior to the closing of the Merger) and (ii) future benefits under the ECBP with respect to service and compensation levels following the closing of the Merger or (B) the benefits earned under the Progress Supplemental Plan, as increased by post-Merger service and cost of living adjustments.
ECBP
Progress Supplemental Plan
Progress Participants
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms of the Amended and Restated ECBP, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.3 hereto, and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Increase in the Number of Board Members and New Board Committee Structure
Also in connection with the Merger and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, the Duke Energy Board increased the number of directors on the Board from 11 to 18, effective as of the effective time of the Merger. The Duke Energy Board appointed the following former members of the Progress Energy board of directors to fill the seven newly created directorships: Mr. Johnson, John D. Baker II, Harris E. DeLoach, Jr., James B. Hyler, Jr., E. Marie McKee, Carlos A. Saladrigas and Theresa M. Stone. As described in greater detail above, Mr. Johnson has subsequently resigned from the Duke Energy Board of Directors.
The newly appointed non-employee directors will be eligible to receive the same retainers and meeting fees as the current non-employee directors serving on the Duke Energy Board and set forth on Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and will be eligible to participate in all other director compensation programs that have been previously disclosed in Duke Energy's most recent Definitive 14A Proxy Statement, filed with the SEC on March 22, 2012.
As of July 2, 2012, the Duke Energy Board has added a Regulatory Policy and Operations Committee to its previously existing committees. The committees of the Duke Energy Board as of July 2, 2012 and their membership are set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, Duke Energy amended its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to provide for a 1-for-3 reverse stock split with respect to the issued and outstanding Duke Energy Common Stock (the ""). The shareholders of Duke Energy approved the Reverse Stock Split at Duke Energy's special meeting of shareholders held on August 23, 2011, as previously announced in Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 26, 2011. Holders of Duke Energy Common Stock immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger (except for those holders of Duke Energy Common Stock who held their shares through the Duke Energy InvestorDirect Choice Plan) will receive cash for any
Reverse Stock Split
 
fractional shares of Duke Energy Common Stock to which they might otherwise be entitled as a result of the Reverse Stock Split.
The foregoing description of the Reverse Stock Split is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Certificate of Amendment providing for the Reverse Stock Split, as filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 3.1 hereto and is incorporated into this report by reference.
 
On July 3, 2012, Duke Energy issued a press release announcing the completion of the Merger and related events. A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Credit Agreement  Second Effective Date
On July 2, 2012, Duke Energy caused its indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, PEC and PEF, to execute joinder agreements to Duke Energy's credit agreement, dated as of November 18, 2011 (the ""), among Duke Energy, certain of its direct and indirect wholly owned subsidiaries, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto. As a result of the execution of such joinders, the effectiveness of the Merger and the satisfaction of certain other conditions specified in the Credit Agreement, the "Second Effective Date" (as defined in the Credit Agreement) has occurred and therefore the maximum credit available to Duke Energy and the other borrowers under the Credit Agreement increased by an additional $2,000,000,000, resulting in maximum availability of $6,000,000,000, with applicable sublimits for each borrower. The Credit Agreement was fully described in and filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K, filed November 25, 2011.
Credit Agreement
Opinion as to Certain Tax Matters
In connection with the consummation of the Merger, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz issued an opinion as to certain tax matters related thereto. A copy of the opinion is attached as Exhibit 99.3 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
          (a)           Financial Statements of Business Acquired
The Progress Energy audited consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, Progress Energy audited consolidated statements of income and Progress Energy audited consolidated statements of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, and the notes related thereto, which were included as Exhibit 99.1 to Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 2, 2012, are filed as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and are incorporated in this report by reference.
The Progress Energy unaudited condensed consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, Progress Energy unaudited condensed consolidated statements of comprehensive income and Progress Energy unaudited condensed consolidated statements of cash flows for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and 2011, and the notes related thereto, which were included as Exhibit 99.1 to Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 11, 2012, are filed as Exhibit
 
99.5 hereto and are incorporated into this report by reference.
          (b)           Pro Forma Financial Information
The Duke Energy and Progress Energy unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012 and the Duke Energy and Progress Energy unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of operations for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and the year ended December 31, 2011, which were included as Exhibit 99.2 to Duke Energy's Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 11, 2012, and the notes related thereto, are filed as Exhibit 99.6 hereto and are incorporated in this report by reference.
          (d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
* Furnished and not filed herewith.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Duke Energy Corporation (the ""), a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), certifies as follows:
Corporation
DGCL
 
 
 
"(a) The aggregate number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is two billion forty-four million (2,044,000,000) shares, consisting of two billion (2,000,000,000) shares of Common Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the ""), and forty-four million (44,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock, par value $0.001 per share (the "").
Common Stock
Preferred Stock
Upon the filing and effectiveness (the "") pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law of this Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, each three shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding or held by the Corporation in treasury stock immediately prior to the Effective Time shall, automatically and without any action on the part of the respective holders thereof or the Corporation, be combined and converted into one (1) share of Common Stock, subject to the treatment of fractional share interests as described below (the ""). No fractional shares of Common Stock or certificates representing fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued in connection with the Reverse Stock Split, other than with respect to shares of Common Stock held in participant accounts under the InvestorDirect Choice Plan of the Corporation or any successor plan (the ""), in which case any fraction of a share to be issued shall be rounded to four decimal places. Stockholders that otherwise would be entitled to receive fractional shares of Common Stock, other than in respect of shares of Common Stock held in participant accounts under the Plan, shall be entitled to receive cash (without interest) from the Corporation's transfer agent in lieu of such fractional share interests upon the submission of a properly completed and duly executed transmittal letter and, where the Common Stock is held in certificated form, the surrender of the stockholder's Old Certificates (as defined below), in an amount equal to the proceeds attributable to the sale of such fractional shares following the aggregation and sale by the Corporation's transfer agent of all such fractional shares otherwise issuable. Each certificate that immediately prior to the Effective Time represented shares of Common Stock (""), shall thereafter (and without the necessity of presenting the same for exchange) represent that number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Common Stock represented by the Old Certificate shall have been combined, subject to the elimination of fractional share interests as described above."
Effective Time
Reverse Stock Split
Plan
Old Certificates
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this certificate to be signed by a duly authorized officer this 2nd day of July, 2012.
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Employment Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into as of the 27th day of June, 2012, by and between William D. Johnson (the "Employee") and Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Duke Energy").
WHEREAS, the Employee previously served as Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Progress Energy, Inc. ("Progress");
WHEREAS, Progress entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among Duke Energy, Diamond Acquisition Corporation ("Diamond Corp") and Progress, dated as of January 8, 2011 (the "Merger Agreement");
WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of the Merger Agreement, the Employee entered into an Employment Agreement Term Sheet with Duke Energy and Diamond Corp, setting forth the material terms of the Employee's employment with Duke Energy and attached to the Merger Agreement as Exhibit C (the "Employment Term Sheet");
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Merger Agreement, effective as of the "Effective Time" (as such term is defined in the Merger Agreement), Diamond Corp will merge with and into Progress and Progress, as the surviving corporation, will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy; and
WHEREAS, Duke Energy desires to employ the Employee to serve as its President and Chief Executive Officer effective as of the Effective Time (the "Effective Date"), and the Employee desires to accept such positions with Duke Energy.
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual covenants contained herein, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
1. . Duke Energy hereby employs the Employee, and the Employee hereby accepts such employment, effective as of the Effective Date, upon the terms and conditions set forth herein. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy, represents the entire agreement of the parties with respect to that subject, and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements with respect to that subject. Without limiting the foregoing sentence, effective as of the Effective Date, this Agreement supersedes in its entirety the Employment Agreement by and between Progress and the Employee dated as of May 8, 2007 (the "Progress Employment Agreement"), the Employment Term Sheet and the Progress Management Change-in-Control Plan (the "Progress CIC Plan"), in each case except as otherwise expressly provided herein.
Employment
2. .
Position and Duties
(a) . The Employee shall be employed by Duke Energy as President and Chief Executive Officer in accordance with Sections 4.04 and 4.05 of the by-laws of Duke Energy as in effect at the Effective Date, as amended, and shall be nominated to serve as a member of the Duke Energy Board of Directors (the "Board"). Except with respect to duties expressly assigned to the Executive Chairman of the Board in Exhibit B to the Merger Agreement, the Employee shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of Duke Energy and shall perform all duties incidental to such positions which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required by the Board. The Employee shall report directly to the Board. For administrative purposes, Duke Energy may designate the Employee as being employed by one or more of its affiliates.
Duties
(b) . While employed by Duke Energy, the Employee shall devote his full time and attention to Duke Energy and its affiliates and shall not be employed by any other person or entity. Subject to Section 11, the Employee may reasonably participate as a member in community, civic, or similar organizations and may pursue personal investments, so long as such activities do not interfere with the performance of the Employee's responsibilities as an employee in accordance with this Agreement, provided that the Employee may serve on corporate boards (other than the Board) with the approval of the Board, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
Engaging in Other Employment
(c) . The Employee shall act at all times in compliance with the policies, rules and decisions adopted from time to time by Duke Energy, its Board and any employing affiliates and perform all the duties and obligations required of him by this Agreement in a loyal and conscientious manner.
Loyal and Conscientious Performance
(d) . The Employee's principal office shall be at the principal executive offices of Duke Energy in Charlotte, North Carolina. Except for required business travel to an extent substantially consistent with the business travel obligations of other senior Duke Energy executives, the Employee will not be required to relocate to a new principal place of business that is more than 50 miles from such location.
Location
3. . The term of the Employee's employment pursuant to this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and end on the third anniversary of the Effective Date (the "Term"), unless terminated earlier pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement.
Term of Employment
4. .
Annual Cash Compensation
(a) . The Employee's annual base salary, payable in pro rata installments not less often than monthly, will be at the annual rate of not less than $1,100,000 (less applicable withholdings) ("Annual Base Salary"). If Annual Base Salary is increased during the Term, then such adjusted salary will thereafter be the Annual Base Salary for all purposes under this Agreement.
Annual Base Salary
(b) . Commencing with the 2012 calendar year, the Employee shall be eligible to participate in the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Short-Term Incentive
Short-Term Incentive Plan
 
Plan (as it may be amended, or any successor thereto) or any other annual cash bonus program, with an annual target opportunity thereunder of 125% of Annual Base Salary (the "Target Bonus Opportunity"). The terms and conditions of the Employee's short-term incentive compensation opportunities shall be substantially similar to the terms and conditions of the short-term incentive compensation opportunities provided to other executive officers of Duke Energy, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board from time to time.
5. . Commencing with the 2012 calendar year, the Employee shall be eligible to participate in the applicable Duke Energy long-term incentive plan, with an annual target opportunity thereunder of 500% of Annual Base Salary. The terms and conditions (.., performance measures, vesting schedules, allocation between different forms of equity) of the Employee's long-term incentive awards shall be substantially similar to the terms and conditions of the long-term incentive awards granted to other executive officers of Duke Energy, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board from time to time (together with any Progress equity awards held by the Employee immediately prior to the Effective Date that were converted as of the Effective Date into Duke Energy equity awards, the "LTIP Awards"). The terms and conditions of the grant of LTIP Awards to the Employee under the applicable Duke Energy long-term incentive plan shall be set forth in the award agreement relating to the grant of such LTIP Award, which in the case of the Progress equity awards held by the Employee immediately prior to the Effective Date shall be the agreement evidencing each such Progress equity award as adjusted for the conversion to a Duke Energy equity award.
Equity Awards
e
g
6. . The Employee's benefit under the Progress Amended and Restated Supplemental Senior Executive Retirement Plan (the "SERP") shall be treated consistent with the Merger Agreement, and in the same manner as the benefit of other former Progress executives who participate in the SERP and who are employed by Duke Energy following the Effective Time.
Supplemental Senior Executive Retirement Plan
7. . During the Term, the Employee shall be provided with employee benefits (e.g., participation in retirement plans and health and insurance plans), fringe benefits and perquisites on a basis no less favorable than such benefits and perquisites as are provided by Duke Energy from time to time to other executive officers of Duke Energy. The Employee shall also be entitled to participation in Duke Energy's Executive Physicals Program. The Employee shall be reimbursed for ordinary and reasonable expenses specifically including but not limited to those associated with entertainment and travel in accordance with Duke Energy policies and procedures. To the extent the Employee incurs ordinary and reasonable expenses associated with his spouse accompanying him on business travel, Duke Energy will reimburse the Employee for those expenses.
Fringe Benefits
8. . Duke Energy desires to provide for the security of the Employee during his travels, and accordingly, whenever feasible, Duke Energy will require the Employee to use Duke Energy aircraft for his business travel. The Employee will also be permitted to use Duke Energy aircraft for his personal travel within North America pursuant to Duke Energy's standard policies as in effect from time to time and subject to availability in light of the use of Duke Energy aircraft for other Duke Energy business. The Employee shall reimburse Duke Energy for the cost of any such personal travel in accordance with Duke Energy's standard rates and reimbursement policies as in effect from time to time; that
Use of Duke Energy Aircraft
provided
 
no reimbursement shall be required in respect of (i) travel within the contiguous 48 United States to an annual physical as provided in Section 7 hereof or (ii) travel to meetings of the board of directors of other companies on whose board the Employee serves (further provided that, to the extent any such other company does reimburse the Employee for the cost of such travel, the Employee shall pay to Duke Energy within 30 days of the date the reimbursement is made the amount that is reimbursed). To the extent that the provision of aircraft usage is treated by the taxing authorities as a taxable personal benefit to the Employee, the Employee will be responsible for the payment of any taxes on such income, including making payments to Duke Energy to fund withholding obligations as described in Section 10 hereof.
9. . The Employee's employment hereunder requires that he relocate his principal residence to the Charlotte, North Carolina metropolitan area. To compensate the Employee for the costs associated with such relocation, Duke Energy will reimburse the Employee for direct and indirect costs incurred on account of such relocation in accordance with Duke Energy's relocation policies and procedures; that the Employee shall not be eligible to receive a tax gross-up payment or indemnification if any such reimbursement for relocation costs constitutes taxable income to the Employee; , , that relocation services shall be available to the Employee for up to two years immediately following the Effective Date.
Relocation Payments
provided
provided
further
10. . Duke Energy may effect withholdings, from the payments due to the Employee, for the payment of taxes and other lawful withholdings or required employee contributions, in accordance with applicable law. If circumstances arise in which such withholding or contributions are required on account of any compensation or benefits (including, without limitation, upon the payment or provision of any compensation or benefits pursuant to Sections 7, 8 and, if applicable, 9), at a time when there are not cash payments being made to the Employee from which such withholding obligations can be satisfied, the Employee will deliver to Duke Energy amounts sufficient to fund such withholding or contribution obligations.
Withholding
11. .
Confidentiality and Privileged Information; Noncompetition/Nonsolicitation
(a) .
Confidentiality
(i) The Employee shall not, at any time, use (other than in the ordinary course of and for the purpose of fulfilling his duties as an employee of Duke Energy), divulge or otherwise disclose, directly or indirectly, any confidential and proprietary information (including without limitation any customer or prospect list, supplier list, acquisition or merger target, business plan or strategy, data, records, financial information or other trade secrets) concerning the business, policies or operations of Duke Energy or its affiliates (or any predecessors thereof) that the Employee may have learned or become aware of at any time on or prior to the date hereof or during the term of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy.
(ii) The Employee further acknowledges and agrees that all "Company Materials", which include, but are not limited to, computers, computer software, computer disks, tapes, printouts, source, HTML and other code, flowcharts, schematics, designs, graphics, drawings, photographs, charts, graphs, notebooks, customer lists, sound recordings, other tangible or intangible manifestation of content, and all other documents whether printed,
 
typewritten, handwritten, electronic, or stored on computer disks, tapes, hard drives, or any other tangible medium, as well as samples, prototypes, models, products and the like, shall be the exclusive property of Duke Energy and, upon termination of the Employee's employment with Duke Energy (or, in the event that the Employee continues as a director of Duke Energy, upon his ceasing to be a director of Duke Energy), or upon the request of Duke Energy, all Company Materials, including all copies thereof, as well as all other property of Duke Energy then in the Employee's possession or control, shall be returned to Duke Energy. For purposes of this Section 11(a), "Company Materials" shall include all such materials of Duke Energy and its affiliates (and any predecessors thereof).
(iii) The Employee acknowledges that the Company Materials may contain information that is confidential and subject to the attorney-client privilege of Duke Energy or its affiliates or otherwise protected by attorney work product immunity. Except as required by law, the Employee agrees not to disclose to any person (other than in-house or outside counsel for Duke Energy and its affiliates) the content or substance of any such Company Materials or confidential or privileged conversations or discussions that the Employee may have or may have had at any time, whether during his employment hereunder or otherwise, regarding such Company Materials. In addition, the Employee agrees that he will, if and to the extent directed by the general counsel of Duke Energy, cooperate fully with in-house or outside counsel for Duke Energy and its affiliates in connection with any investigation, litigation or other matter in which such counsel represents Duke Energy or its affiliates and acknowledges that his communications with such counsel will be subject to Duke Energy's or its affiliates' attorney-client privilege.
(b) .
Noncompetition/Nonsolicitation
(i) During the Restricted Period (as defined below), the Employee agrees that he shall not, without Duke Energy's prior written consent, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, for any reason, directly or indirectly, either as principal, agent, manager, employee, partner, shareholder, director, officer, consultant or otherwise (A) become engaged or involved, in a manner that relates to or is similar in nature to those duties performed by the Employee at any time during his employment with Duke Energy and its affiliates, in any business (other than as a less-than three percent (3%) equity owner of any corporation traded on any national, international or regional stock exchange or in the over-the-counter market) that competes with Duke Energy or any of its affiliates in the business of production, transmission, distribution, or retail or wholesale marketing or selling of electricity; resale or arranging for the purchase or for the resale, brokering, marketing, or trading of electricity or derivatives thereof; energy management and the provision of energy solutions; development and operation of power generation facilities, domestically and abroad; and any other business in which Duke Energy, including affiliates, is engaged at the termination of the Employee's continuous employment with Duke Energy, including affiliates; or (B) induce or attempt to induce any customer, client, supplier, employee, agent or independent contractor of Duke Energy or any of its affiliates to reduce, terminate, restrict or otherwise alter its business relationship with Duke Energy or its affiliates. The provisions of this Section 11(b)(i) shall be effective only within any state or country with respect to which was conducted a business of Duke Energy and its affiliates during any part of the Employee's employment. The parties intend the above geographical areas to be completely severable and independent, and any invalidity or unenforceability of this Agreement with respect to any one area shall not render this Agreement unenforceable as applied to any one or more of the other areas.
 
(ii) For purposes of this Section 11(b), "Restricted Period" shall mean the period of the Employee's employment during the term of this Agreement and, in the case of Section 11(b)(i)(A), the 12-month period following termination of employment and, in the case of Section 11(b)(i)(B), the 24-month period following termination of employment.
(c) . The Employee agrees that, in the event he violates the provisions of this Section 11, (i) he will forfeit and not be entitled to any further payments in accordance with Section 12(b)(i) or Section 12(b)(ii) hereof, as applicable, (ii) any stock options ("Options") then outstanding shall expire immediately and (iii) if such violation is after the termination of his employment, he will be obligated to repay to Duke Energy the sum of (x) any amounts, other than pursuant to Options, paid (determined as of the date of payment) after the termination of employment pursuant to the applicable provisions of Section 12 hereof (other than the Accrued Obligations and amounts paid pursuant to Section 12(b)(i)(F)) and (y) the amount of any gains realized by the Employee upon the exercise of Options (measured by the difference between the aggregate fair market value on the date of exercise of shares underlying the Option and the aggregate exercise price of the Option) within the one-year period prior to the first date of the violation, with such sum reduced by any amount previously repaid pursuant to this Section 11(c). Such amount shall be paid to Duke Energy in cash in a single sum within ten business days after the first date of the violation, whether or not Duke Energy has knowledge of the violation or has made a demand for payment. Any such payment made following such date shall bear interest at a rate equal to the prime lending rate of Citibank, N.A. (as periodically set) plus 1%.
Forfeiture and Repayments
(d) . The Employee acknowledges that the restrictions set forth in this Section 11 are reasonable and necessary to protect Duke Energy's business and goodwill, and that the obligations under this Section 11 shall survive any termination of his employment. The Employee acknowledges that if any of these restrictions or obligations are found by a court having jurisdiction to be unreasonable or overly broad or otherwise unenforceable, he and Duke Energy agree that the restrictions or obligations shall be modified by the court so as to be reasonable and enforceable and if so modified shall be fully enforced.
Scope of Restrictions
(e) . The Employee acknowledges and agrees that the compensation and benefits provided in this Agreement constitute adequate and sufficient consideration for the covenants made by the Employee in this Section 11. As further consideration for the covenants made by the Employee in this Section 11, Duke Energy has provided and will provide the Employee certain proprietary and other confidential information about Duke Energy, including, but not limited to, business plans and strategies, budgets and budgetary projections, income and earnings projections and statements, cost analyses and assessments, and/or business assessments of legal and regulatory issues.
Consideration; Survival
 
12. .
Termination of Employment
(a) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Employee's employment may be terminated prior to the end of the Term:
In General
(i) by the Employee, by resigning with Good Reason (as defined in Exhibit A hereto);
(ii) by Duke Energy for Cause (as defined in Exhibit A hereto);
(iii) by the Employee, by resigning without Good Reason;
(iv) by Duke Energy without Cause; or
(v) upon the death, or due to the Disability (as defined in Exhibit A hereto), of the Employee;
Any termination of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy or by the Employee during the Term (other than a termination due to the Employee's death) will be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other party to this Agreement in accordance with Section 14 and Exhibit A.
(b) . Subject to Section 12(d) hereof:
Certain Terminations
(i) If the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy without "Cause" or by the Employee with "Good Reason" on or prior to the second anniversary of the Effective Date, the Employee shall, consistent with the terms of Section 6 of the Progress CIC Plan, be entitled to the following severance payments and benefits:
(A) a cash lump sum payment equal to the sum of (w) any earned but unpaid Annual Base Salary through the Date of Termination, (x) any of the Employee's business expenses that are reimbursable, but have not been reimbursed as of the Date of Termination, (y) the Employee's annual cash bonus for the fiscal year immediately preceding the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs, if such annual cash bonus has not been paid as of the Date of Termination and (z) any accrued vacation pay to the extent not theretofore paid (the sum of the amounts described in subclauses (w), (x), (y) and (z), the "Accrued Obligations");
(B) a cash lump sum payment equal to 300% of the sum of (x) Annual Base Salary and (y) the greater of (1) the average annual cash bonus paid to the Employee with respect to the three completed calendar years immediately preceding the year during which the Date of Termination occurs (including years during which the Employee was an employee of Progress); , , that if the Employee was not eligible to receive an annual cash bonus with respect to each of the three calendar years immediately preceding the year in which the Date of Termination occurs, the average shall be determined for that period of calendar years, if any, for which the Employee was eligible to receive an annual cash bonus, or (2) the Target Bonus Opportunity for the year during which the Date of Termination occurs;
provided
however
(C) Duke Energy shall pay the total cost for continued participation under the applicable medical, dental, vision and life insurance plans in which the Employee participated immediately prior to the termination of his employment until the earlier of the third anniversary of the Date of Termination and the date or dates that the Employee receives comparable coverage and benefits under the plans, programs and/or arrangements of a subsequent employer;
 
(D) a cash lump sum payment equal to 100% of his Target Bonus Opportunity for the year during which the Date of Termination occurs;
(E) all outstanding unvested stock options and restricted stock units shall vest immediately and each performance share award outstanding at the time of termination shall vest at target level;
(F) vesting of any awards which have been granted to the Employee by the Company or any of its Affiliates under any incentive compensation plan, program or agreement (other than those plans or agreements specified above) prior to the Date of Termination; and
(G) payment of accrued benefits in all accrued nonqualified deferred compensation plans.
(ii) If the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy without "Cause" or by the Employee with "Good Reason" following the second anniversary of the Effective Date and on or prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date, the Employee shall, consistent with the terms of Section 8(a)(ii) of the Progress Employment Agreement, be entitled to the following severance payments and benefits:
(A) the Accrued Obligations;
(B) 2.99 times Annual Base Salary payable in equal cash installments, paid in accordance with Duke Energy's regular payroll practices, over a period of 2.99 years from the Date of Termination;
(C) reimbursement for continued coverage under certain health and welfare benefit plans pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ("COBRA") until the earlier of (i) 18 months after the Date of Termination or (ii) the Employee's right to receive COBRA ends; and
(D) the treatment of all outstanding LTIP Awards held by the Employee as of the Date of Termination shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the applicable award agreement for each such LTIP Award.
(iii) If the Employee's employment is terminated for death or Disability, he shall be entitled to receive a lump sum payment of the Accrued Obligations and a prorata portion of his annual cash bonus for the year during which the Date of Termination occurs, determined based on actual performance and paid at the time that payment under the applicable annual incentive plan are made to other executive officers of Duke Energy and paid in accordance with the terms of such annual incentive plan.
(iv) If the Employee's employment is terminated by the Employee other than with Good Reason, the Employee shall be entitled to receive a lump sum payment of the Accrued Obligations and the treatment of all LTIP Awards shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the award agreements for such LTIP Awards.
 
(v) If the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy for Cause, the Employee shall be entitled to receive a lump sum payment of the Accrued Obligations and the treatment of all LTIP Awards shall be determined in accordance with the terms of the award agreements for such LTIP Awards.
(c) . "Date of Termination" means (i) if the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy for Cause, or by the Employee for Good Reason, the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination or such later date specified in the Notice of Termination, as the case may be, (ii) if the Employee's employment is terminated by Duke Energy other than for Cause or Disability, the date on which Duke Energy notifies the Employee of such termination, (iii) if the Employee resigns without Good Reason, the date on which the Employee notifies Duke Energy of such termination, and (iv) if the Employee's employment is terminated by reason of death or Disability, the date of death of the Employee or on the thirtieth day following receipt of the Notice of Termination due to Disability; that, within the 30 days after such receipt the Employee has not returned to full-time performance of his duties.
Date of Termination
provided
(d) . Except for Accrued Obligations and the amounts in Section 12(b)(i)(F), which shall be paid pursuant to the applicable plans and policies, the compensation and benefits to be provided under Sections 12(b)(i) and 12(b)(ii) hereof shall be provided only if the Employee timely executes and does not timely revoke a release of claims substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B. Such release must be signed by the Employee, and become effective and irrevocable in accordance with its terms, within 52 days after the date of the Employee's termination of employment (such 52
Release Requirement
nd
day, the "Release Deadline"). Except as explicitly provided above, the compensation and benefits to be provided under Sections 12(b)(i) and 12(b)(ii) hereof shall be paid or provided (as applicable) or begin to be paid or provided (as applicable) within 15 days immediately following the Release Deadline. For the avoidance of doubt, any installment payments under Section 11(b) that are scheduled to be paid prior to the Release Deadline shall be aggregated and paid on the first payment date following the Release Deadline.
(e) . In no event shall the Employee be entitled to a gross-up for, or any other payment relating to, excise taxes imposed by Section 4999 of the Code as a result of the Employee being entitled to payments or benefits that constitute an "excess parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code; , , that the Employee and Duke Energy agree to use their best efforts to structure the payments and benefits to eliminate or reduce any potential exposure to Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.
No Excise Tax Gross-Up
provided
however
(f) . If, on the Date of Termination, the Employee is a member of the Board or the board of directors of any of Duke Energy's affiliates, or holds any other position with Duke Energy or its affiliates, the Employee shall be deemed to have resigned from all such positions as of the date of his termination of employment with Duke Energy. The Employee agrees to execute such documents and take such other actions as Duke Energy may request to reflect such resignation.
Effect of Termination on Other Positions
(g) . The payments and benefits provided under this Section 12 shall be in full satisfaction of Duke Energy's obligations to the Employee upon his termination of employment and in no event shall the Employee be entitled to severance benefits (or other damages in respect of a termination of employment or claim for breach of this Agreement) beyond those specified in this Section 12.
Full Settlement
 
(h) . Duke Energy will reimburse the Employee for all reasonable legal fees and expenses incurred by the Employee during his lifetime (i) in successfully disputing pursuant to Section 18 a termination which is ultimately determined to constitute a termination of employment entitling him to benefits pursuant to this Section 12 or (ii) in reasonably disputing pursuant to Section 18 whether or not Duke Energy has terminated his employment for Cause. Payment will be made within 20 business days after delivery of the Employee's written request for payment accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as Duke Energy reasonably may require, provided that the Employee shall request reimbursement not later than 11 months after which the underlying expense is incurred and any such payment shall be made not later than the last day of the year following the year in which the underlying expense was incurred.
Certain Payment Disputes
13. .
Administration
(a) . The Employee shall designate a person or persons ("Beneficiary") to receive benefits hereunder following the death of the Employee by submitting to the Compensation Committee a designation of Beneficiary in the form required by the Compensation Committee. In the absence of a valid designation form, all such benefits shall be paid to the legal representative of the Employee's estate. If Duke Energy has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments hereunder, Duke Energy shall have the right to withhold such payments until the matter is finally determined.
Designation of Beneficiary
(b) . No right or benefit under this Agreement shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge such rights or benefits shall be void.
No Assignment
14. . Any notice to be given hereunder by either party to the other must be in writing and be effectuated either by personal delivery in writing or by mail, registered or certified, postage prepaid, with return receipt requested. Mailed notices shall be addressed to the parties at the following addresses:
Notice
If to Duke Energy or any Duke Energy affiliate:
Chairman, Compensation Committee
Duke Energy Corporation
550 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
 
Duke Energy Corporation
550 South Tryon Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
 
If to the Employee:
At the most recent contact information on file in the payroll records of Duke Energy
15. . The waiver by any party to a breach of any provision in this Agreement cannot operate or be construed as a waiver of any subsequent breach by a party.
Waiver of Breach
16. . The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision in this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if the invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted.
Severability
17. . No modifications or amendments of the terms and conditions herein shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the parties or their respective duly authorized agents.
Amendment
18. . The parties agree that any dispute, claim, or controversy based on common law, equity, or any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation (other than workers' compensation claims) arising out of or relating in any way to the Employee's employment, the terms, benefits, and conditions of employment, or concerning this Agreement or its termination and any resulting termination of employment, including whether such a dispute is arbitrable, shall be settled by arbitration. This agreement to arbitrate includes but is not limited to all claims for any form of illegal discrimination, improper or unfair treatment or dismissal, and all tort claims. The Employee will still have a right to file a discrimination charge with a federal or state agency, but the final resolution of any discrimination claim will be submitted to arbitration instead of a court or jury. The arbitration proceeding will be conducted under the employment dispute resolution arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association in effect at the time a demand for arbitration under the rules is made, and such proceeding will be adjudicated in Charlotte, North Carolina in accordance with the laws of the state of North Carolina, without regard to any applicable state's choice of law provisions. The decision of the arbitrator(s), including determination of the amount of any damages suffered, will be exclusive, final, and binding on all parties, their heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns. Each party will bear its own expenses in the arbitration for arbitrators' fees and attorneys' fees, for its witnesses, and for other expenses of presenting its case. Other arbitration costs, including administrative fees and fees for records or transcripts, will be borne equally by the parties. Notwithstanding anything in this Section 18 to the contrary, if the Employee prevails with respect to any dispute submitted to arbitration under this Section 18, Duke Energy will reimburse or pay all legal fees and expenses that the Employee may reasonably incur as a result of the dispute.
Governing Law and Forum Selection
19. . This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their permitted successors, assigns, legal representatives and heirs, but neither this Agreement nor any rights hereunder shall be assignable by the Employee. Duke Energy will require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of Duke Energy to assume expressly and agree in writing to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that Duke Energy would be required to perform it if no succession had taken place. Upon the Employee's termination of employment within 90 days following Duke Energy's failure to obtain such an assumption and agreement prior to the effective date of a
Successors and Assigns
 
succession, the Employee shall be entitled to compensation from Duke Energy in the same amount and on the same terms as if the Employee's employment were to terminate pursuant to Section 12(b)(i) (if such failure to obtain an assumption occurs on or prior to the second anniversary of the Effective Date) or Section 12(b)(ii) (if such failure to obtain an assumption occurs after the second anniversary and on or prior to the third anniversary of the Effective Date) hereof.
20. . Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, Duke Energy's obligation to make the payments provided for in this Agreement and otherwise to perform its obligations under this Agreement will not be affected by any set-off, counterclaim, recoupment, defense, or other claim, right, or action that Duke Energy may have against the Employee or others. In no event will the Employee be obligated to seek other employment or take any other action by way of mitigation of the amounts (including amounts for damages for breach) payable to the Employee under any of the provisions of this Agreement and, except as explicitly set forth in Section 12(b) of this Agreement, those amounts will not be reduced simply because the Employee obtains other employment.
Full Settlement; Mitigation
21. . Duke Energy shall promptly reimburse the Employee for reasonable attorney's fees incurred by the Employee in the negotiation and documentation of this Agreement upon receipt of supporting documentation reasonably satisfactory to Duke Energy. Payment will be made within five business days after delivery of the Employee's written request for payment accompanied by such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as Duke Energy reasonably may require, provided that any reimbursements under this Section 21 are made in a manner consistent with the last sentence of Section 22 of this Agreement.
Document Preparation Fees
22. . It is the intention of Duke Energy and the Employee that this Agreement not result in unfavorable tax consequences to the Employee under Section 409A. To the extent applicable, it is intended that the Agreement comply with the provisions of Section 409A. The Agreement will be administered and interpreted in a manner consistent with this intent, and any provision that would cause the Agreement to fail to satisfy Section 409A will have no force and effect until amended to comply therewith (which amendment may be retroactive to the extent permitted by Section 409A). Duke Energy and the Employee agree to work together in good faith in an effort to comply with Section 409A including, if necessary, amending this Agreement based on further guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service from time to time, provided that Duke Energy shall not be required to assume any increased economic burden. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, the Employee shall not be considered to have terminated employment with Employer for purposes of the Agreement and no payments shall be due to him under the Agreement which are payable upon his termination of employment until he would be considered to have incurred a "separation from service" from Duke Energy within the meaning of Section 409A. To the extent required in order to avoid accelerated taxation and/or tax penalties under Section 409A, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to the Agreement during the six-month period immediately following the Employee's termination of employment shall instead be paid in a lump sum on the first day of the seventh month following his termination of employment (or upon his death, if earlier). In addition, for purposes of the Agreement, each amount to be paid or benefit to be provided to the Employee pursuant to the
Code  409A
 
Agreement shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A. With respect to expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided under the terms of the Agreement, (i) the amount of such expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided in any taxable year shall not affect the expenses eligible for reimbursement or in-kind benefits provided in another taxable year, (ii) any reimbursements of such expenses and the provision of any in-kind benefits shall be made no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the related expenses were incurred, except, in each case, to the extent that the right to reimbursement does not provide for a "deferral of compensation" within the meaning of Section 409A, provided that with respect to any reimbursements for any taxes to which the Employee becomes entitled under the terms of the Agreement, the payment of such reimbursements shall be made by Duke Energy no later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Employee remits the related taxes, and (iii) the right to reimbursement or in-kind benefit shall not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
For purposes of Section 12, "Cause", "Good Reason" and "Disability" shall have the respective meanings set forth below:
"Cause" means:
(a) The willful and continued failure by the Employee to substantially perform the Employee's duties with Duke Energy or any of its affiliates or to comply with the policies, rules and decisions adopted from time to time by Duke Energy, its Board and any employing affiliates of which the Employee is made aware or reasonably should be aware (other than any such failure resulting from the Employee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) that, if curable, has not been cured within 30 days after the Board has delivered to the Employee a written demand for substantial performance, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Employee has not substantially performed his duties. This event will constitute Cause even if the Employee issues a Notice of Termination (as described below) for Good Reason after the Board delivers a written demand for substantial performance.
(b) The breach by the Employee of the provisions set forth in Section 11.
(c) The conviction of the Employee for the commission of a felony, including the entry of a guilty or plea, or any willful or grossly negligent action or inaction by the Employee that has a materially adverse effect on Duke Energy. For purposes of this definition of Cause, no act, or failure to act, on the Employee's part will be deemed "willful" unless it is done, or omitted to be done, by the Employee in bad faith and without reasonable belief that the Employee's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of Duke Energy.
nolo contendere
"Good Reason" means:
(a) The material reduction without his consent of the Employee's title, authority, duties, or responsibilities from those in effect immediately prior to the reduction, the failure by Duke Energy without the consent of the Employee to nominate the Employee for election or re-election to the Board, or a material adverse change in the Employee's reporting responsibilities.
(b) Any breach by Duke Energy of any other material provision of this Agreement (including but not limited to the place of performance as specified in Section 2(d)).
Any termination of the Employee's employment by Duke Energy for Cause or by the Employee for Good Reason will be communicated by a written Notice of Termination to the other party to this Agreement in accordance with the following requirements:
(a) The notice indicates the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon as the basis for termination.
 
(b) To the extent applicable, the notice sets forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Employee's employment for Good Reason or Cause (as the case may be).
(c) If the Date of Termination of employment is other than the date of receipt of the notice, the notice specifies the Date of Termination, which will be no more than 30 days after the date the notice was given. The failure by the Employee or Duke Energy to set forth in the Notice of Termination any fact or circumstances that contributes to a showing of Good Reason or Cause will not waive any right of the Employee or Duke Energy under this Agreement or preclude the Employee or Duke Energy from asserting that fact or circumstance in enforcing rights under this Agreement.
(d) If for Cause, the notice must include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less three quarters (3/4) of the entire membership of the Board (excluding the Employee, if he is a member of the Board) at a meeting of the Board called and held for the purpose of considering the termination. The resolution must include a finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board (excluding the Employee, if he is a member of the Board), the Employee was guilty of conduct set forth in the definition of Cause, and it must specify the particulars of the conduct in detail.
"Disability" means the Employee is entitled to disability benefits under a long-term disability plan sponsored by Duke Energy or an affiliate thereof.
 
EXHIBIT B
This RELEASE OF CLAIMS (the "Release") is executed and delivered by William D. Johnson (the "Employee") to DUKE ENERGY CORPORATION (together with its successors, "Duke").
In consideration of the agreement by Duke to provide the Employee with the rights, payments and benefits under the Employment Agreement between the Employee and Duke dated (the "Employment Agreement"), the Employee hereby agrees as follows:
                        
Section 1. . The Employee, of his own free will, voluntarily and unconditionally releases and forever discharges Duke, its subsidiaries, parents, affiliates, their directors, officers, employees, agents, stockholders, successors and assigns (both individually and in their official capacities with Duke) (the "Duke Releasees") from, any and all past or present causes of action, suits, agreements or other claims which the Employee, his dependents, relatives, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns has or may hereafter have from the beginning of time to the date hereof against Duke or the Duke Releasees upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, including, but not limited to, any matters arising out of his employment by Duke and the cessation of said employment or any claim for compensation, and including, but not limited to, any alleged violation of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 and 1991, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the North Carolina Equal Employment Protection Act and any other federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, or public policy, contract or tort law having any bearing whatsoever on the terms and conditions of employment or termination of employment. This Release shall not, however, constitute a waiver of any of the Employee's rights under the Employment Agreement.
Release and Covenant
Section 2. . The Employee acknowledges that he has received a copy of this Release prior to its execution and has been advised hereby of his opportunity to review and consider this Release for 21 days prior to its execution. The Employee further acknowledges that he has been advised hereby to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Release. The Employee enters into this Release having freely and knowingly elected, after due consideration, to execute this Release and to fulfill the promises set forth herein. This Release shall be revocable by the Employee during the 7-day period following its execution, and shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of such 7-day period. In the event of such a revocation, the Employee shall not be entitled to the consideration for this Release set forth above.
Due Care
Section 3. . The Employee represents and warrants that there has been no assignment or other transfer of any interest in any claim which the Employee may have against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees. The Employee represents that he has not commenced or joined in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees arising out of or relating to any of the matters set
Nonassignment of Claims; Proceedings
 
forth in this Release. The Employee further agrees that he will not seek or be entitled to any personal recovery in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke or any of the Duke Releasees for any of the matters set forth in this Release.
Section 4. . The Employee acknowledges that, in his decision to enter into this Release, he has not relied on any representations, promises or agreements of any kind, including oral statements by representatives of Duke or any of the Duke Releasees, except as set forth in this Release and the Employment Agreement.
Reliance by Employee
Section 5. . Nothing contained in this Release will be deemed or construed as an admission of wrongdoing or liability on the part of Duke or any of the Duke Releasees.
Nonadmission
Section 6. . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Employee remains free to report or otherwise communicate any nuclear safety concern, any workplace safety concern, or any public safety concern to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, United States Department of Labor, or any other appropriate federal or state governmental agency, and the Employee remains free to participate in any federal or state administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation with respect to any claims and matters not resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement. With respect to any claims and matters resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement, the Employee is free to participate in any federal or state administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation if subpoenaed. The Employee shall give Duke, through its legal counsel, notice, including a copy of the subpoena, within 24 hours of receipt thereof.
Communication of Safety Concerns
Section 7. . This Release shall be interpreted, construed and governed according to the laws of the State of North Carolina, without reference to conflicts of law principles thereof.
Governing Law
This RELEASE OF CLAIMS is executed by the Employee and delivered to Duke on.
                                             
 
 

Exhibit 10.2
This Separation and Settlement Agreement (this "Agreement") is entered into as of July 3, 2012 by and between William D. Johnson (the "Executive"), and Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Duke Energy"). The Executive and Duke Energy are referred to as the "Parties," and each as a "Party," in this Agreement.
WHEREAS, the Executive has been employed by Duke Energy as its Chief Executive Officer;
WHEREAS, the Executive and Duke Energy entered into an employment agreement, dated as of June 27, 2012 that became effective on July 2, 2012 (the "Employment Agreement"); and
WHEREAS, Duke Energy and the Executive have agreed that it is in the best interest of Duke Energy and the Executive for the Executive to resign, and they wish to set forth their mutual agreement as to the terms and conditions of such resignation;
NOW, THEREFORE, Duke Energy and the Executive hereby agree as follows:
1.    . Effective as of 12:01 a.m. on July 3, 2012 (the "Resignation Date"), the Executive hereby resigns from his employment with Duke Energy, from his position as a member of the Board of Directors of Duke Energy, and from all other positions the Executive then holds with respect to Duke Energy and its subsidiaries or affiliates (Duke Energy and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including Progress Energy, Inc. and any other predecessor entities, are hereinafter referred to as the "Affiliated Entities"), including as an officer or member of the board of directors of any Affiliated Entity. Within 15 business days following the Resignation Date or such earlier time as required by applicable law, the Executive will be paid all of his salary and unused vacation earned or accrued through the Resignation Date.
Resignation
2.    .
Separation Payments and Benefits
a.    Subject to the Executive's compliance with the terms of this Agreement and the non-revocation of the release set forth in Paragraph 5 of this Agreement, following the Revocation Date (as defined in Paragraph 15 of this Agreement), Duke Energy shall pay or provide to the Executive the payments and benefits contemplated by Section 12(b)(i) of the Employment Agreement to which the Executive would have been entitled upon a resignation by the Executive for "good reason" (as set forth on hereto).
Exhibit A
b.    Consistent with Section 5.08 of the Agreement and Plan of Merger, by and among Duke Energy, Diamond Acquisition Corporation and Progress Energy, Inc., dated as of January 8, 2011, following the Resignation Date, Duke Energy shall provide or cause to be provided to the Executive coverage under Duke Energy's directors' and officers' insurance policies for events that occurred while the Executive was a director or officer of any of the Affiliated Entities on the same terms and conditions applicable to other former senior executives and directors of Duke Energy generally.
c.    Duke Energy shall reimburse the Executive for any reasonable and necessary business expenses incurred by the Executive and unreimbursed on or prior to the Resignation Date pursuant to Duke Energy's reimbursement policies, within 30 days following the Executive's presentation of an invoice to Duke Energy.
d.    Duke Energy shall reimburse the Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred by him prior to the Effective Date in connection with his relocation to Charlotte, which are currently expected to be $30,000.
e.    Except as provided in Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, as well as any benefits that are accrued and vested as of the Resignation Date under employee benefit plans of an Affiliated Entity in which the Executive participates, the Executive shall be entitled to no other compensation and/or benefits of any kind from any of the Affiliated Entities.
3.    . Subject to the Executive's compliance with the terms of this Agreement and the non-revocation of the Release set forth in Paragraph 5 of this Agreement, all currently outstanding equity awards under the applicable Progress Energy, Inc. equity plans held by the Executive as of the Resignation Date shall immediately vest on the Resignation Date pursuant to Section 12(b)(i)(E) of the Employment Agreement.
Equity Awards
4.    . Within ten days following the date that is six months after the Resignation Date, and in consideration for the Executive's agreement to cooperate with Duke Energy and not to disparage the Duke Energy Parties (as defined below), the Executive shall be paid an amount (the "Additional Payment") that is equal to the lesser of (a) $1,500,000 and (b) the portion of the payment described in clause (a) of this Paragraph 4 (taking into account the value of reasonable compensation for services to be rendered by the Executive before or after the Resignation Date, including any non-competition provisions that apply to the Executive and Duke Energy) that the Executive may be paid that does not, when aggregated with all other payments, benefits or distributions in the nature of compensation to or for the Executive's benefit, whether paid, payable or provided pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise that are contingent upon a change in ownership or control within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Payments"), exceed an amount equal to three times the Executive's "base amount" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") minus $5,000. In the event that the Executive is not eligible to be paid any portion of the Additional Payment by reason of the application of the limitation described in clause (b) of the preceding sentence, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in Section 12(e) of the Employment Agreement and in consideration for the Executive's agreement to cooperate with Duke Energy and not to disparage the Duke Energy Parties (as defined below), the Executive shall, subject to the Executive's cooperation with Duke Energy in making determinations with respect to Section 280G of the Code, taking into account the value of reasonable compensation for services to be rendered by the Executive before or after the Resignation Date, including any non-competition provisions that apply to the Executive and Duke Energy, be eligible to receive "Gross-Up Payments" consistent with the terms of Section 11 of the Progress Energy, Inc. Management Change-in-Control Plan and an additional payment of $500,000 within ten days following the date that is six months after the Resignation Date, which payment, for the avoidance of doubt shall be covered by the "Gross-Up Payments".
Additional Payments/280G
5.    .
Release of Claims
a.    In consideration of and in exchange for the benefits provided to him under this Agreement, including but not necessarily limited to Duke Energy's acceptance of the Executive's resignation effective as of the Resignation Date, and the benefits set forth in Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Agreement, the Executive, of his own free will, voluntarily and unconditionally releases and forever discharges (the "Release") the Affiliated Entities, their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, stockholders, successors and assigns (both individually and in their official capacities with Duke Energy) (the "Duke Releasees") from, any and all past or present causes of action, suits, agreements or other claims which the
 
Executive, his dependents, relatives, heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns has or may hereafter have from the beginning of time to the date hereof against Duke Energy or the Duke Releasees upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever, including, but not limited to, any matters arising out of his employment by the Affiliated Entities, and the cessation of said employment or any claim for compensation, and including, but not limited to, any alleged violation of the Civil Rights Acts of 1964 and 1991, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act of 1990, the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, the North Carolina Equal Employment Protection Act and any other federal, state or local law, regulation or ordinance, or public policy, contract or tort law having any bearing whatsoever on the terms and conditions of employment or termination of employment. The Release shall not, however, constitute a waiver of any of the Executive's rights to compensation and benefits due under this Agreement.
b.    The Executive acknowledges that he has received a copy of this Agreement prior to its execution and has been advised hereby of his opportunity to review and consider the Release for 21 days prior to its execution. The Executive further acknowledges that he has been advised hereby to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement. The Executive enters into this Agreement having freely and knowingly elected, after due consideration, to execute this Agreement and to fulfill the promises set forth herein. The Release shall be revocable by the Executive during the seven-day period following its execution, and shall not become effective or enforceable until the expiration of such seven-day period. In the event of such a revocation, the Executive shall not be entitled to the consideration under this Agreement set forth in Paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 above.
c.    The Executive represents and warrants that there has been no assignment or other transfer of any interest in any claim which the Executive may have against Duke Energy or any of the Duke Releasees. The Executive represents that he has not commenced or joined in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke Energy or any of the Duke Releasees arising out of or relating to any of the matters set forth in this Release. The Executive further agrees that he will not seek or be entitled to any personal recovery in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against Duke Energy or any of the Duke Releasees for any of the matters set forth in the Release.
d.    The Executive acknowledges that, in his decision to enter into this Agreement, including the Release, he has not relied on any representations, promises or agreements of any kind, including oral statements by representatives of Duke Energy or any of the Duke Releasees, except as set forth in the Release and this Agreement.
e.    Nothing contained in the Release will be deemed or construed as an admission of wrongdoing or liability on the part of Duke Energy or any of the Duke Releasees.
f.    Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to prohibit, restrict or otherwise discourage the Executive from participating in protected activity as defined in 10 CFR 50.7 and Section 211 of the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, including, but not limited to reporting any suspected instance of illegal activity of any nature, any nuclear safety concern, any workplace safety concern, any public safety concern, or any other matter within the United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission's ("NRC") regulatory responsibilities to the NRC, the United States Department of Labor, or any other federal or state governmental agency. This Agreement further does not prohibit the Executive from participating in any way in any state or federal administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation with respect to any
 
claims and matters not resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement. With respect to any claims and matters resolved and terminated pursuant to this Agreement, the Executive is free to participate in any federal or state administrative, judicial, or legislative proceeding or investigation if subpoenaed. The Executive shall give Duke Energy, through its legal counsel, notice, including a copy of the subpoena, within 24 hours of receipt thereof.
6.    . The Executive shall not disparage any of the Affiliated Entities, their directors, officers, employees, agents, stockholders, successors and assigns (both individually and in their official capacities with Duke Energy) (the "Duke Energy Parties") or any Duke Energy Parties' goods, services, employees, customers, business relationships, reputation or financial condition. Duke Energy shall instruct its current officers and directors (as such terms are used for purposes of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) not to disparage the Executive and shall treat any such disparagement as a violation of Duke Energy's Code of Business Ethics. For purposes of this Agreement, to "disparage" means to make statements, whether oral or written, whether direct or indirect, whether true or false and whether acting alone or through any other person, that cast the subject of the statement in a critical or unfavorable light or that otherwise cause damage to, or intend to embarrass, the subject of the statement. Attached to this Agreement as is a press release regarding Executive's termination of employment. Neither the Executive nor Duke Energy shall make any public statement regarding Executive's termination of employment that is materially inconsistent with such press release. Nothing in the foregoing will preclude either the Executive or Duke Energy from providing truthful disclosures as required by applicable law or legal process.
Non-disparagement
Exhibit B
7.    . The Executive shall be subject to each of the covenants set forth in Section 11 of the Employment Agreement, including Section 11(a) (Confidentiality), Section 11(b) (Noncompetition/Nonsolicitation), Section 11(c) (Forfeiture and Repayments, which shall also be applicable in the event of a violation of Section 6 of this Agreement), Section 11(d) (Scope of Restrictions) and Section 11(e) (Consideration; Survival).
Confidential Information; Return of Property; Restrictive Covenants
8.    . The Executive agrees to cooperate with Duke Energy in connection with his departure as reasonably requested by Duke Energy, including with respect to any communications to current and former employees or directors of any of the Affiliated Entities as may reasonably be requested by Duke Energy in connection with such departure. The Executive will be available, upon reasonable notice, to respond to questions and provide assistance to Duke Energy regarding matters for which he was responsible and about which he had knowledge in connection with his employment with any of the Affiliated Entities. The Executive also will cooperate in any potential or pending litigation or arbitration that may involve him in any capacity as a result of his employment with, or service as a member of the board of directors of, any of the Affiliated Entities. This includes, if necessary, meeting at mutually convenient times with attorneys of any of the Affiliated Entities, attending meetings, depositions and trial, and providing truthful testimony.
Cooperation
9.    . The Parties agree that any dispute, claim or controversy based on common law, equity, or any federal, state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation (other than workers' compensation claims) arising out of or relating in any way to the Executive's employment shall be addressed, in all respects, consistent with Section 18 of the Employment Agreement.
Governing Law and Forum Selection
10.    . Except to the extent that federal law governs, this Agreement will be governed by and construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina, without regard to any applicable state's choice of law provisions.
Applicable Law
 
11.    . Except with respect to the provisions of the Employment Agreement expressly referenced herein, this Agreement sets forth the entire agreement of Duke Energy and the Executive with respect to the subject matter hereof, and supersedes all other agreements between any of the Affiliated Entities and the Executive and any employment or severance plan, policy, agreement or arrangement of any of the Affiliated Entities. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Executive expressly acknowledges and agrees that except as specifically set forth in this Agreement, he is not entitled to receive any severance pay, severance benefits, compensation or employee benefits of any kind whatsoever from Duke Energy or any of its affiliates. This Agreement may not be amended unless the amendments are in writing and signed by the Executive and an authorized representative of Duke Energy.
Integrated Agreement; Amendments
12.    . The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision in this Agreement shall not affect the other provisions hereof, and this Agreement shall be construed in all respects as if the invalid or unenforceable provision were omitted.
Severability
13.    .Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, Duke Energy may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement, or any other benefits received pursuant hereto, such Federal, state and/or local taxes as shall be required to be withheld under any applicable law or regulation. The obligations under this Agreement are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or an exemption or exclusion therefrom, provided that the Executive acknowledges and agrees that he shall be solely responsible for any taxes and/or penalties imposed under Section 409A of the Code. Each payment under this Agreement shall be treated as a separate payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. In no event may the Executive, directly or indirectly, designate the calendar year of any payment to be made under this Agreement. If the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) then any payments that are required to be made to the Executive pursuant to this Agreement that constitute the deferral of compensation (within the meaning of Treasury Regulations Section 1.409A-1(b) and that would in the absence of this Paragraph 13 have been paid to the Executive within six months and one day of the Resignation Date shall not be paid to the Executive during such period, but shall instead be accumulated and paid to the Executive in a lump sum on the earlier of (i) the day after the date that is six months from the Resignation Date and (ii) if the Executive shall die prior to the expiration of such six-month period, as soon as practicable following the date of the Executive's death. All reimbursements and in-kind benefits that constitute deferred compensation within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code provided under this Agreement shall be made or provided in accordance with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, including, without limitation, that (i) in no event shall reimbursements by Duke Energy under this Agreement be made later than the end of the calendar year next following the calendar year in which the applicable fees and expenses were incurred; (ii) the amount of in-kind benefits that Duke Energy is obligated to pay or provide in any given calendar year shall not affect the in-kind benefits that Duke Energy is obligated to pay or provide in any other calendar year; and (iii) the Executive's right to have Duke Energy pay or provide such reimbursements and in-kind benefits may not be liquidated or exchanged for any other benefit.
Taxes
14.    . This Agreement is personal to the Executive and without the prior written consent of Duke Energy shall not be assignable by the Executive other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's legal representatives and the legal representatives of his estate to the extent applicable. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon Duke Energy and its successors and assigns.
Successors
15.    . By signing this Agreement, the Executive warrants that he:
Representations and Warranties
 
a.    has carefully read and reviewed this Agreement;
b.    fully understands all of its terms and conditions;
c.    fully understands that this Agreement is legally binding and that by signing it he is giving up certain rights;
d.    has not relied on any other representations by Duke Energy or its employees or agents, whether written or oral, concerning the terms of this Agreement;
e.    has been advised of his opportunity to consider for up to 21 days whether to accept the Release;
f.    will have seven days to revoke the Release (but not the remainder of this Agreement) after signing it, with the eighth day following the execution of this Agreement being referred to as the "Revocation Date";
g.    has been advised by, and has had the opportunity to consult with, an attorney prior to executing this Agreement;
h.    acknowledges that all notice requirements under any other agreement, arrangement or plan have been fully satisfied;
i.    executes and delivers this Agreement freely and voluntarily;
j.    is waiving any rights or claims he may have under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967; and
k. is not waiving any rights or claims which may arise after this Agreement is signed.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties hereto has duly executed this Agreement as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
The purpose of the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Cash Balance Plan (the "Plan") is to provide additional retirement benefits for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. The Plan originally was effective as of January 1, 1997 and was amended thereafter from time to time. Effective January 1, 1999, the Plan replaced the PanEnergy Corp Key Executive Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan and all benefits provided thereunder were provided in accordance with the terms set forth herein. The Plan is intended to be a non-qualified, unfunded plan of deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), and shall be so interpreted and administered. Effective August 26, 2008, the Plan was amended and restated in its entirety in order to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Effective on July 2, 2012, the Plan is hereby amended and restated in its entirety, as set forth herein, to reflect the participation by, and assumption of the obligations of, certain individuals who (i) as of January 8, 2011 served on the Progress Energy, Inc. Senior Management Committee, (ii) participated in or, but for the service eligibility requirements, would have participated in the Amended and Restated Supplemental Senior Executive Retirement Plan of Progress Energy, Inc. (the "Progress Nonqualified Plan"), and (iii) were employees of Progress Energy, Inc., or its affiliates, in each case immediately prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time (as defined in Exhibit A).
The Plan was divided into two separate parts, one of which is referred to herein as "Part I" and the other is referred to herein as "Part II." Any "amounts deferred" under the Plan in taxable years beginning before January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and any earnings thereon shall be governed by the terms of Part I of the Plan, as set forth herein. It is intended that such amounts and the earnings thereon shall be exempt from the application of Section 409A of the Code. Nothing contained herein is intended to materially enhance a benefit or right existing under Part I of the Plan as of October 3, 2004, or add a new material benefit or right to Part I of the Plan. As of January 1, 2005 ("Effective Date"), Part I of the Plan was frozen, and neither the Company, its affiliates nor any individual shall make or permit to be made any additional contributions or deferrals under Part I of the Plan (other than earnings) on or after that date.
Any "amounts deferred" in taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2005 (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) and any earnings thereon shall be governed by the terms and conditions of Part II of the Plan, as set forth herein. To the extent that any of those amounts were credited under the Plan prior to the Effective Date (the "Transferred Amounts"), then the Committee shall transfer the Transferred Amounts from Part I of the Plan to Part II of the Plan and credit those amounts to the appropriate bookkeeping accounts under Part II of this Plan, as selected by the Committee in its sole discretion. As a result of such transfer and crediting, all of the Company's obligations and Participant's rights with respect to the Transferred Amounts under Part I of the Plan, if any, shall automatically be extinguished and become obligations and rights under Part II of this Plan without further action. For purposes of clarity, the obligations assumed from the Progress Nonqualified Plan shall be governed by the terms and conditions of Part II of the Plan, as set forth herein.
Wherever used herein, a pronoun or adjective in the masculine gender includes the feminine gender, the singular includes the plural, and the following terms have the following meanings unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. Additional terms are defined in Section 6.9 of the Plan.
2.1 "Affiliated Group" shall mean, except as otherwise provided in Exhibit A, the Company and all entities with whom the Company would be considered a single employer under Sections 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code, provided that in applying Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3) for purposes of determining a controlled group of corporations under Section 414(b) of the Code, the term "at least 45 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in Code Section 1563(a)(1), (2), and (3), and in applying Treasury Regulation Section 1.414(c)-2 for purposes of determining trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) that are under common control for purposes of Section 414(c), the term "at least 45 percent" is used instead of "at least 80 percent" each place it appears in that regulation. Such term shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the definition of "service recipient" contained in Section 409A of the Code.
2.2 "Beneficiary" means, except as otherwise provided in Exhibit A, the person or persons designated by a Participant, or by another person entitled to receive benefits hereunder, to receive benefits following the death of such person.
2.3 "Board of Directors" means the Board of Directors of Duke Energy Corporation.
2.4 "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon:
(a) an acquisition subsequent to the Effective Date hereof by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 30% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Duke Energy Corporation or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of Duke Energy Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; excluding, however, the following: (1) any acquisition directly from Duke Energy Corporation, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted was itself acquired directly from Duke Energy Corporation, (2) any acquisition by Duke Energy Corporation and (3) any acquisition by an employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Duke Energy Corporation or its affiliated companies;
(b) during any period of two (2) consecutive years (not including any period prior to the Effective Date), individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors (and any new directors whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Duke Energy Corporation's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was so approved) cease for any reason (except for death, disability or voluntary retirement) to constitute a majority thereof;
 
(c) the consummation of a merger, consolidation, reorganization or similar corporate transaction, which has been approved by the shareholders of Duke Energy Corporation, whether or not Duke Energy Corporation is the surviving corporation in such transaction, other than a merger, consolidation, or reorganization that would result in the voting securities of Duke Energy Corporation outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of Duke Energy Corporation (or such surviving entity) outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or reorganization;
(d) the consummation of (A) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Duke Energy Corporation or (B) a complete liquidation or dissolution of Duke Energy Corporation, which has been approved by the shareholders of Duke Energy Corporation; or
(e) adoption by the Board of Directors of a resolution to the effect that any Person has acquired effective control of the business and affairs of Duke Energy Corporation.
2.5 "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
2.6 "Committee" means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or its delegate.
2.7 "Company" means Duke Energy Corporation and its affiliated companies.
2.8 "Compensation" means "Compensation" as defined in the Retirement Cash Balance Plan but without regard to the limitations of Code Section 401(a)(17) and including Employee deferrals (except for deferrals of long-term incentive awards) under the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Savings Plan.
2.9 "Employee" means a person employed by the Affiliated Group.
2.10 "Equalization Plan" means the PanEnergy Corp Key Executive Retirement Benefit Equalization Plan as it existed on December 31, 1998.
2.11 "Interest Credit" means an amount credited pursuant to Section 4.4 of the Plan.
2.12 "Interest Factor" means the interest rate determined by the formula (1 + i), raised to the one-twelfth (1/12
th
) power, minus one (1), where "i" equals the yield on 30-year Treasury Bonds as published in the Federal Reserve Statistical Release H.15 for the end of the third full business week of the month prior to the beginning of the calendar quarter for which the monthly accrual is being applied, but not more than an annual percentage rate of nine percent (9%) and not less than an annual percentage rate of four percent (4%).
2.13 "Make-Whole Benefit" means the benefit provided pursuant to Section 4.2 of the Plan.
 
2.14 "Participant" means an Employee who is entitled to receive benefits from the Plan.
2.15 "Part I" and "Part II" of the Plan are defined in Article I.
2.16 "Pay Credit" means a credit that is added to a Participant's Make-Whole Account pursuant to Section 4.2.
2.17 "Plan" means the Duke Energy Corporation Executive Cash Balance Plan.
2.18 "Retirement Cash Balance Plan" means (i) for purposes of Part I, the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan as in effect on October 3, 2004, without giving effect to amendments adopted thereafter, and (ii) for purposes of Part II, the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan as in effect from time to time. For a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant (as defined in Section 3.3), Retirement Cash Balance Plan also means, for periods on and after the Progress Merger Effective Time (as defined in Exhibit A), the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan (as defined in Exhibit A).
2.19 "Separation from Service" shall mean a termination of employment with the Affiliated Group in such a manner as to constitute a "separation from service" as defined under Section 409A of the Code. To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Committee retains discretion, in the event of a sale or other disposition of assets, to specify whether a Participant who provides services to the purchaser immediately after the transaction has incurred a Separation from Service.
2.20 "Specified Employee" shall mean, as of any date, a "specified employee", as defined in Section 409A of the Code (as determined under the Company's policy for identifying specified employees on the relevant date), of the Company or any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code.
2.21 "Supplemental Credit" means a credit that is added to a Participant's Supplemental Account pursuant to Section 4.3.
2.22 "Supplemental Benefit" means the benefit provided under Section 4.3 of the Plan.
2.23 "Supplemental Retirement Plan" means the Supplemental Retirement Plan for Employees of Duke Power Company as it existed on December 31, 1996.
2.24 "Supplemental Security Plan" means the Duke Power Company Supplemental Security Plan as it existed on December 31, 1996.
3.1 . Any Employee designated by the Committee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan and shall remain eligible as long as he continues to be an Employee or, except for a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant, until designated ineligible by the Committee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Employee who is not a member of a "select group of management or highly compensated employees" within the meaning of ERISA, may
General Rule
 
not participate in the Plan. Participants shall not receive any benefits under the terms of the Supplemental Retirement Plan, the Supplemental Security Plan or the Equalization Plan. For purposes of clarity, the eligibility rules of Article III are subject to amendment as provided in Article VIII.
3.2 . Former Employees, (i) whose Company employment terminated before January 1, 1997, and who had accrued benefits under the Supplemental Retirement Plan or Supplemental Security Plan, or (ii) whose Company employment terminated before January 1, 1999, and who had accrued benefits under the Equalization Plan, will receive payment, or will continue to receive payment, of such benefits under the terms of such plans. Such former Employees will not participate in this Plan.
Former Employees
3.3 . Effective as of the Progress Merger Effective Time, each individual who (i) as of January 8, 2011 served on the Progress Energy, Inc. Senior Management Committee, (ii) participated in or, but for the service eligibility requirements, would have participated in the Progress Nonqualified Plan, and (iii) was an employee of Progress Energy, Inc., or its affiliates, in each case immediately prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time (each, a "Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant") shall be eligible to participate in the Plan as of the Progress Merger Effective Time and shall remain eligible as long as he continues to be an Employee. A Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who incurs a Separation from Service shall not be eligible to participate again in the Plan upon reemployment with the Company unless and until designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan following such reemployment. The obligations and rights of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants under the Progress Nonqualified Plan shall automatically be extinguished as of the Progress Merger Effective Time and shall become obligations and rights under this Plan, as set forth herein. For purposes of clarity, the obligations and rights of participants in the Progress Nonqualified Plan other than the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants shall not become obligations or rights under this Plan.
Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants
4.1 . The Plan provides a Make-Whole Benefit and may provide a Supplemental Benefit. Each Participant shall have a Make-Whole Account (with an opening balance of zero dollars ($0.00)), which is a bookkeeping account established under this Plan and shall be eligible for a Make-Whole Benefit. The Committee will determine whether a Participant is to be eligible for a Supplemental Benefit, in which case a "Supplemental Account," which is a bookkeeping account, shall be established.
General Rule
4.2 . Under the Make-Whole Benefit, for any month that a Participant is eligible to participate in this Plan, the Participant's Make-Whole Account shall receive a Pay Credit equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the pay credit that would have been provided under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan for the month if the Retirement Cash Balance Plan used the definition of Compensation set forth herein and, to the extent determined by the Committee from time to time, other types of excluded pay were treated as eligible compensation under such Plan; over (b) the pay credit for the month that is actually made to the Participant's account under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan. A Participant, while "Disabled" as defined in the Retirement Cash Balance Plan and continuing to receive pay credits to the Participant's account under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, shall continue to receive
Pay Credits to the Make-Whole Account
 
Pay Credits to the Participant's Make-Whole Account determined on the same basis as his continued pay credits under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, and based upon his eligible Compensation. In addition, the Make-Whole Benefit provides a Pay Credit to the Participant's Make-Whole Account equal to any reduction in a benefit under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan (for purposes of clarity, note that this includes the Progress Energy Pension Plan) resulting from the limitations imposed by Section 415 of the Code. Where an opening account balance under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan has been established for a Participant, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may establish an opening balance for the Participant's Make-Whole Account that is designed to provide a transition benefit comparable to the benefit provided through the Retirement Cash Balance Plan opening account balance, but without regard to the limitations imposed by Sections 401(a)(17) or 415 of the Code. If the value of the benefit which a vested Participant had accrued under the Supplemental Retirement Plan as of December 31, 1996, is greater than the value of the Participant's Make-Whole Account on the date the Participant retires, such higher value shall apply.
4.3 . A Participant's Supplemental Account shall receive such Supplemental Credits, in such amounts and at such times, as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may determine. Supplemental Credits may include, but are not limited to, an opening account balance or a one-time credit in recognition of the December 31, 1998, discontinuance of supplemental pay credits. Notwithstanding Sections 4.3 and 4.4 to the contrary, the Minimum Benefit feature of Section 4.3(e) of the Plan, as in effect prior to January 1, 1999, is preserved herein and incorporated by reference.
Supplemental Credits
4.4 . An Interest Credit will be added to a Participant's Make-Whole Account and to a Participant's Supplemental Account as of the end of each calendar month ending prior to the month in which the respective account is fully distributed or forfeited. The amount of the Interest Credit for a month will equal the balance of the respective account as of the end of the prior month (after adding any Pay Credit, Supplemental Credit and Interest Credit for the prior month and subtracting any payment or forfeiture for the prior month) multiplied by the Interest Factor for the month. Notwithstanding the foregoing, and for purposes of Part I only, Interest Credits to the Supplemental Account of a Participant whose employment with the Company terminates before attaining the earliest retirement age under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan will be suspended beginning with the month during which employment terminates and will not resume until the month following the month during which payment of the Supplemental Benefit commences.
Interest Credits
5.1 . Unless the Committee provides otherwise for a particular Participant at the time the Participant initially becomes eligible to participate in the Plan or at the time of an award of a particular Supplemental Credit (and any Interest Credits thereto), a Participant will become fully vested in the Participant's Make-Whole Account and the Participant's Supplemental Account, if any, when (i) the Participant becomes vested under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, or (ii) the Participant's employment with the Company terminates on account of the Participant's death or the Participant having become "Disabled", as defined in the Retirement Cash Balance Plan. If a Participant's employment with the Company terminates and the Participant is not fully vested, the unvested portion of the Participant's Make-Whole Account and of the Participant's Supplemental Account, if any, shall be immediately
General Rule
 
forfeited and no benefit under the Plan shall be paid with respect thereto. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant shall become vested in, and entitled to a benefit under, the Plan after completing: (a) 10 years of Service (as defined in Exhibit A) and (b) three years of employment at the level of "Senior Vice President and above," which shall include (I) for periods prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time, employment with Progress Energy, Inc. and its affiliates at the Senior Vice President and above level, and (II) for periods after the Progress Merger Effective Time, any employment with the Company.
5.2 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, any one-time Supplemental Credit to a Participant's Supplemental Account that is made in recognition of the December 31, 1998 discontinuance of supplemental pay credit, and any Interest Credits thereon, shall not vest, and shall be forfeited if the Participant's employment with the Company terminates before January 1, 2004, unless such employment termination is on account of the Participant's retirement under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, death, or the Participant having become "Disabled," as defined in the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, or unless such employment termination is by the Company other than for "cause". The Company shall have "cause" to terminate the Participant's employment upon (a) the willful and continued failure by the Participant to substantially perform his employment duties (other than any such failure resulting from the Participant's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) after demand for substantial performance is delivered by the Company, specifically identifying the manner in which the Company believes the Participant has not substantially performed his duties, or (b) the willful engaging by the Participant in misconduct which is materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise. For purposes of this Section, no act, or failure to act, on the Participant's part shall be considered "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by him not in good faith and without reasonable belief that his action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.
Prior Supplemental Credits
5.3 . In the event of a Change in Control, all Participant accounts under the Plan shall become fully and immediately vested and non-forfeitable and shall thereafter be maintained and paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
Change in Control
6.1(a) . For purposes of Part I of the Plan, a Participant whose Company employment terminates prior to the Participant's earliest retirement age under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan will receive, or will begin to receive, payment of his vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, as soon as administratively feasible following the month in which the Participant attains age 55. A Participant whose Company employment terminates after the Participant's earliest retirement age under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan will receive, or will begin to receive, payment of his vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, as soon as administratively feasible following the month in which the Participant's employment terminates. However, a Participant, while "Disabled" (as defined in the Retirement Cash Balance Plan) and continuing to receive pay credits to the Participant's account under the Retirement Cash Balance Plan, shall not receive payment of benefits during the period the Participant receives such pay credits. Any other Participant whose Company employment terminates and whose Make-Whole Account and Supplemental Account, if any, have a combined balance, as of the last day of the month during which employment terminated, of less than $25,000, will receive payment of his
Timing of Payments Under Part I
 
vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, in a single sum, as soon as administratively feasible following the month in which the Participant's employment with the Company terminates.
6.1(b) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.9, for purposes of Part II of the Plan, and subject to Section 6.5, a Participant whose Company employment terminates on or after December 31, 2006 will receive, or will begin to receive, payment of his vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, within 60 days after Separation from Service.
Timing of Payments Under Part II
6.2(a)(1) . With respect to Part I of the Plan, each Participant has been provided the opportunity to elect from among the forms of benefit payment specified in Section 6.2(b)(1) the manner in which such Participant's vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, shall be paid. A Participant may change his form of benefit payment election under Part I of the Plan at any time, and from time to time, by completing such form as the Committee provides and filing the completed form with the Committee. No such change shall become effective unless and until the Participant has continued in employment with the Company for at least one year from the date on which the Committee receives notification of the change.
Election of Form of Benefit Under Part I
6.2(a)(2) . With respect to Part II of the Plan, no later than December 31, 2008 (or such earlier date set by the Committee), each Participant must elect from among the forms of benefit payment specified in Section 6.2(b)(2) the manner in which such Participant's vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, shall be paid. The election described in this Section 6.2(a)(2) shall be subject to such terms and conditions as the Committee may specify in its sole discretion and shall be consistent with the terms of Notice 2007-86 and the applicable proposed and final Treasury Regulations issued under Section 409A of the Code. To the extent that a Participant does not designate the manner in which such Participant's vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, shall be paid as provided in this Section 6.2(a)(2) (or such designation does not comply with the terms of Part II of the Plan), such accounts shall be paid in a single lump sum. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Plan to the contrary, except Section 6.2(d) or Section 6.9, or any other plan, policy, practice or program, contract or agreement with the Company or the Affiliated Group (unless otherwise specifically provided therein in a specific reference to this Plan), a Participant who becomes eligible to participate in the Plan after December 31, 2008 shall have no right to choose a form of payment for his accounts, and, instead, his vested Make-Whole Account and his vested Supplemental Account, if any, shall be paid in a single lump sum.
Election of Form of Benefit Under Part II
6.2(b)(1) . The forms of benefit payment available under Part I of the Plan are:
Forms of Benefit Under Part I
 
 
 
 
 
At such time as benefits under the Plan become payable with respect to a Participant, such benefits shall be paid in accordance with the benefit payment form then in effect unless otherwise expressly provided by the Plan.
6.2(b)(2) . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.9, the forms of benefit payment available under Part II of the Plan are:
Forms of Benefit Under Part II
 
 
 
At such time as benefits under the Plan become payable with respect to a Participant, such benefits shall be paid in accordance with the benefit payment form then in effect unless otherwise expressly provided by the Plan.
6.2(c) . In the event of monthly installment payments, the amount of the payment for a particular month shall be calculated as follows:
Calculation of Installment Payments
 
where
N represents the number of months remaining in the payment term and
V represents the sum of the balance of the Participant's Make-Whole Account and the balance of the Participant's Supplemental Account, if any, determined as of the end of the prior month after adding any Pay Credits, Supplemental Credits and Interest Credits for the prior month and subtracting any payment or forfeiture for the prior month.
6.2(d) . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, prior to making a Supplemental Credit, the Committee may provide that the portion of the Participant's vested Supplemental Account that is attributable to such Supplemental Credit shall be distributed in any benefit payment form specified in advance by the Committee.
Forms of Benefit  Supplemental Account
6.3 . Any benefit payment due under the Plan shall be paid in cash.
Payments in Cash
6.4 . Upon written request by a Participant, the Committee may distribute to a Participant who is receiving a monthly payment form of distribution, such amount of the remaining balance of the Participant's vested Make-Whole Account and vested Supplemental Account, if any, which the Committee determines is necessary to provide for a financial hardship suffered by the Participant. For purposes of Part I of the Plan, the term "financial hardship" shall mean a severe financial hardship as determined under federal income tax law, regulations and rulings which are applicable to non-qualified deferred compensation plans. For purposes of Part II of the Plan, the term "financial hardship" shall mean an "unforeseeable emergency" as defined under Section 409A of the Code. Payment shall be made within 60 days following the determination that a withdrawal shall be permitted under this Section, or such later date as may be required under Section 6.5.
Financial Hardship
 
6.5 . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.6(a), 6.6(b) and 6.9, and to the extent required under Section 409A of the Code, with respect to any Participant who is a Specified Employee as of his or her Separation from Service, the payment of benefits from Part II of the Plan that are otherwise payable pursuant to the Participant's Separation from Service shall commence within 60 days after the first business day of the seventh month following such Separation from Service (or if earlier, upon the Participant's death).
Mandatory Six-Month Delay Under Part II
6.6 . To the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time or schedule of a payment of benefits under Part II of the Plan as provided in this Section. The provisions of this Section are intended to comply with the exception to accelerated payments under Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(j) and shall be interpreted and administered accordingly. Except as otherwise specifically provided in Part II of this Plan, the Committee may not accelerate the time or schedule of any payment or amount scheduled to be paid under the Plan within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code.
Discretionary Acceleration of Payment
(a) . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan to an individual other than the Participant as may be necessary to fulfill a domestic relations order (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code).
Domestic Relations Order
(b) . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan to pay the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Sections 3101, 3121(a), and 3121(v)(2) of the Code, or the Railroad Retirement Act (RRTA) tax imposed under Sections 3201, 3211, 3231(e)(1), and 3231(e)(8) of the Code, where applicable, on compensation deferred under the Plan (the FICA or RRTA amount). Additionally, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment, to pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under Section 3401 of the Code or the corresponding withholding provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign tax laws as a result of the payment of the FICA or RRTA amount, and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages attributable to the pyramiding Section 3401 of the Code wages and taxes. However, the total payment under this acceleration provision must not exceed the aggregate of the FICA or RRTA amount, and the income tax withholding related to such FICA or RRTA amount.
Employment Taxes
(c) . Subject to Section 6.5 hereof, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan at any time the Plan fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The payment may not exceed the amount required to be included in income as a result of the failure to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Payment Upon Income Inclusion Under Section 409A
(d) . Subject to Section 6.5 hereof, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan to reflect payment of state, local, or foreign tax obligations arising from participation in the Plan that apply to an amount deferred under Part II of the Plan before the amount is paid or made available to the Participant (the state, local, or foreign tax amount). Such payment may not exceed the amount of such taxes due as a result of participation
Payment of State, Local, or Foreign Taxes
 
in the Plan. The payment may be made in the form of withholding pursuant to provisions of applicable state, local, or foreign law or by payment directly to the participant. Additionally, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan to pay the income tax at source on wages imposed under Section 3401 of the Code as a result of such payment and to pay the additional income tax at source on wages imposed under Section 3401 of the Code attributable to such additional wages and taxes. However, the total payment under this acceleration provision must not exceed the aggregate of the state, local, and foreign tax amount, and the income tax withholding related to such state, local, and foreign tax amount.
(e) . Subject to Section 6.5 hereof, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan as satisfaction of a debt of the Participant to the Company (or any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code), where such debt is incurred in the ordinary course of the service relationship between the Company (or any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code) and the Participant, the entire amount of reduction in any of the taxable years of the Company (or any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code) does not exceed $5,000, and the reduction is made at the same time and in the same amount as the debt otherwise would have been due and collected from the Participant.
Certain Offsets
(f) . Subject to Section 6.5 hereof, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under Part II of the Plan where such payments occur as part of a settlement between the Participant and the Company (or any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code) of an arm's length, bona fide dispute as to the Participant's right to the deferred amount.
Bona Fide Disputes as to a Right to a Payment
(g) . Subject to Section 6.5 hereof, a payment may be accelerated upon such other events and conditions as the Internal Revenue Service may prescribe in generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
Other Events and Conditions
(h) . Subject to Section 6.5, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, require a mandatory lump sum payment of the portion of a Participant's benefit payable under Part II of the Plan if such amount does not exceed the applicable dollar amount under Section 402(g)(1)(B) of the Code, provided that the payment results in the termination and liquidation of the entirety of the Participant's benefit payable under Part II of the Plan plus amounts under all agreements, methods, programs or other arrangements with respect to which deferrals of compensation are treated as having been deferred under a single nonqualified deferred compensation plan under Section 409A of the Code.
Small Payments
6.7 . To the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, delay payment of benefits under Part II of the Plan under any of the following circumstances, provided that the Committee treats all payments to similarly situated Participants on a reasonably consistent basis:
Delay of Payments
(a) . A payment may be delayed to the extent that the Committee reasonably anticipates that if the payment were made as scheduled, the
Payments Subject to Section 162(m)
 
Company's deduction with respect to such payment would not be permitted due to the application of Section 162(m) of the Code. If a payment is delayed pursuant to this Section, then the payment must be made either (i) during the Company's first taxable year in which the Committee reasonably anticipates, or should reasonably anticipate, that if the payment is made during such year, the deduction of such payment will not be barred by application of Section 162(m) of the Code, or (ii) during the period beginning with the first business day of the seventh month following the Participant's Separation from Service (the "six month anniversary") and ending on the later of (x) the last day of the taxable year of the Company in which the six month anniversary occurs or (y) the 15th day of the third month following the six month anniversary. Where any scheduled payment to a specific Participant in a Company's taxable year is delayed in accordance with this paragraph, all scheduled payments to that Participant that could be delayed in accordance with this paragraph must also be delayed. The Committee may not provide the Participant an election with respect to the timing of the payment under this Section. For purposes of this Section, the term Company includes any entity which would be considered to be a single employer with the Company under Section 414(b) or Section 414(c) of the Code.
(b) . A payment may be delayed where the Committee reasonably anticipates that the making of the payment will violate federal securities laws or other applicable law; provided that the delayed payment is made at the earliest date at which the Committee reasonably anticipates that the making of the payment will not cause such violation. For purposes of the preceding sentence, the making of a payment that would cause inclusion in gross income or the application of any penalty provision or other provision of the Code is not treated as a violation of applicable law.
Federal Securities Laws or Other Applicable Laws
(c) . A payment may be delayed upon such other events and conditions as the Internal Revenue Service may prescribe in generally applicable guidance published in the Internal Revenue Bulletin.
Other Events and Conditions
6.8 . If calculation of the amount of the payment under Part II of the Plan is not administratively practicable due to events beyond the control of the Participant (or Beneficiary), the payment will be treated as made upon the date specified under Part II of the Plan if the payment is made during the first calendar year in which the calculation of the amount of the payment is administratively practicable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, payment must be made no later than the latest possible date permitted under Section 409A of the Code. Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary except Section 6.5, and to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code, a payment will be treated as made upon the date specified under Part II of the Plan if the payment is made as close as administratively practicable to the relevant payment date specified herein, and in any event within the same calendar year.
Actual Date of Payment
6.9 . Notwithstanding anything contained in this Plan to the contrary, the amount of benefit and payment terms for a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6.9. For purposes of clarity, (i) this Section 6.9 reflects the obligations and rights assumed from the Progress Nonqualified Plan with respect to the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants and (ii) the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants shall have no further rights under the Progress Nonqualified Plan.
Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants
 
(a) . A Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's benefit from the Plan shall equal the greater of (i) or (ii), where (i) and (ii) are as follows:
Calculation of Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant Benefit
 
 
(b) . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.9(c), (d) or (e), the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's benefit shall be paid in the form of (i) if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant does not have an Eligible Spouse on the date payments under this Plan commence, a Single Life Annuity, commencing within 60 days after the first day of the calendar month next following the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Separation from Service, and ending with a payment for the month in which the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death occurs; provided that the monthly installments shall be guaranteed for 120 monthly payments with any such guaranteed payments remaining at such Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death payable to his Beneficiary or, (ii) if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant has an Eligible Spouse on the date payments under this Plan commence, then a 50% Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity for the life of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant, and after the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death, for the life of the surviving Eligible Spouse, if any.
General Payment Terms
(c) . If a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant incurs a Separation from Service after completing 10 or more years of Service and before being eligible for a normal or early retirement benefit under Paragraph 1 or 2 of Exhibit A, then except as provided in Section 6.9(e), the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's benefit under Section 6.9(a) shall be paid in monthly installments, commencing on the first day of the calendar month coinciding with or next following the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's 65th birthday and ending with a payment for the month in which the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death occurs; provided that, if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is receiving, or dies after attaining age 55 while entitled to receive, the deferred vested benefit, then the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Eligible Spouse (if any) shall be entitled to an amount equal to 50% of the deferred vested benefit the deceased Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant was receiving immediately prior to his death (or would have been entitled to receive if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant had survived until his 65th birthday), which amount shall be payable to the Eligible Spouse in monthly installments commencing in the month following the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death and ending with a payment for the month in which the Eligible Spouse's death occurs.
Deferred Vested Benefits
(d) . If a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant dies while in the employ of the Company after completing 10 or more years of Service, the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Eligible Spouse shall be eligible for an annuity in an amount equal to the standard benefit or, if greater, alternative benefit (as specified below) commencing, except as provided in Section 6.9(e), in the month following the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death and shall continue thereafter ending with a payment for the month in which the Eligible Spouse's death occurs. The standard benefit shall be an amount equal to the greater of (i) or (ii), where
Pre-Retirement Death Benefits
 
 
The alternative benefit shall be available to a surviving Eligible Spouse of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who dies while in the employ of the Company after attaining age 55 with 15 years of Service and shall be equal to 50% of the benefit the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant would have been entitled to receive under Section 6.9(a) calculated as if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant had a Separation from Service immediately prior to his death.
(e) . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 6.6(a) and (b), and to the extent required under Section 409A of the Code, with respect to any Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who is a Specified Employee as of his Separation from Service, all amounts that would otherwise be paid under this Plan during the first six months following the Separation for Service shall instead be accumulated through and paid (without interest) on the first business day of the seventh month following the Separation from Service. If the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant dies following Separation from Service but prior to the commencement of payments under this paragraph (e), then, (i) in the case of benefits payable pursuant to Section 6.9(b), the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's surviving Eligible Spouse, if any, or Beneficiary, as applicable, shall be entitled to receive the same death benefit as if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant had commenced receiving benefit payments as of the first day of the month prior to his death, and (ii) in the case of benefits payable pursuant to Section 6.9(c), the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's surviving Eligible Spouse, if any, or Beneficiary, as applicable, shall be eligible for the surviving spouse benefit set forth therein.
Mandatory Six-Month Delay
(f) . See Article II and Exhibit A.
Definitions
7.1 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.9, upon a Participant's death, any remaining balance of a Participant's vested Make-Whole Account and
Designation of Beneficiary
 
vested Supplemental Account shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary as a death benefit. The Committee will provide each Participant with a form to be completed and filed with the Committee whereby the Participant may designate a Beneficiary.
7.2 . If the Participant does not designate a Beneficiary, or if the Beneficiary who is designated should predecease the Participant, the death benefit for a deceased Participant shall be paid to the estate of the Participant, as the Participant's Beneficiary.
Failure to Designate a Beneficiary
7.3 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.9, if a Participant should die while still employed by the Company or otherwise before payment of any Plan benefits has commenced, payments of any death benefit shall be made to the Participant's Beneficiary in the same benefit payment form elected by the Participant, or otherwise required, under Section 6.2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Part I of the Plan only: (i) if the Beneficiary is the estate, then the death benefit shall be paid in a single lump sum, and (ii) if the death benefit is less than $25,000, the death benefit shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary in a single lump sum.
Death Prior to Commencement of Payment
7.4 . Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.9, if a Participant should die after payment of Plan benefits has commenced, payment of any death benefit will be made to the Participant's Beneficiary as a continuation of the benefit payment form that had been in effect for the Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to Part I of the Plan only, if the Beneficiary is the estate, then the death benefit shall be paid in a single lump sum.
Death After Commencement of Payment
7.5 . If an Employee who was an active participant in the Supplemental Security Plan on December 31, 1996, should die while still employed by the Company, the portion of the death benefit attributable to the Employee's Supplemental Account, determined after taking into account other death benefits attributable to the elimination of the Supplemental Security Plan, shall not be less than the amount determined by multiplying two point five (2.5) times the annualized base rate of pay of the Employee on the date of death.
Death Benefit for Certain Participants
The Committee retains the sole and unilateral right to terminate, amend, modify or supplement this Plan, in whole or in part, at anytime. The Committee may delegate the right to amend the Plan, subject to any limitations it may impose, to an officer of the Company. No such action shall adversely affect a Participant's right to receive amounts then credited to a Participant's account with respect to events occurring prior to the date of such amendment. Moreover, no such action shall in any way affect a Participant's accrued benefit or the right to payment thereof under the provisions of Section 6.9 as in effect immediately prior to the amendment. With respect to Part II of the Plan, subject to Section 6.5 hereof, the Committee may, in its sole discretion to the extent permitted in Section 409A of the Code, provide for the acceleration of the time or schedule of a payment under the Plan upon the termination of the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control, the Plan shall become irrevocable and may not be amended or terminated without the written consent of each Plan Participant who may be affected in any way by such amendment or termination either at the time of such action or at any time
 
thereafter. This restriction in the event of a Change in Control shall be determined by reference to the date any amendment or resolution terminating the Plan is actually signed by an authorized party rather than the date such action purports to be effective.
9.1 . The Company intends for the Plan to be an unfunded "top-hat" plan for a select group of management or highly compensated employees which is exempt from substantially all of the requirements of Title I of ERISA pursuant to Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), and 401(a)(1) of ERISA. The Company is the Plan sponsor under Section 3(16)(B) of ERISA.
Top Hat Plan
9.2 . The Committee shall have the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan except as otherwise expressly provided in this Plan document. The Committee may designate other persons to carry out fiduciary responsibilities under the Plan. The Committee is the administrator of the Plan within the meaning Section 3(16)(A) of ERISA. As administrator, the Committee has the authority (without limitation as to other authority) to delegate its duties to agents and to make rules and regulations that it believes are necessary or appropriate to carry out the Plan. The Committee has the discretion (i) to interpret and construe the terms and provisions of the Plan (including any rules or regulations adopted under the Plan), (ii) to determine questions of eligibility to participate in the Plan and (iii) to make factual determinations in connection with any of the foregoing. A decision of the Committee with respect to any matter pertaining to the Plan including without limitation the Employees determined to be Participants, the benefits payable, and the construction or interpretation of any provision thereof, shall be conclusive and binding upon all interested persons. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to benefits under the Plan.
Plan Administrator
10.1 . A person with an interest in the Plan shall have the right to file a claim for benefits under the Plan and to appeal any denial of a claim for benefits. Any request or application for a Plan benefit or to clarify the claimant's rights to future benefits under the terms of the Plan shall be considered to be a claim.
Claim
10.2 . A claim for benefits will be considered as having been made when submitted in writing by the claimant (or by such claimant's authorized representative) to the Committee. No particular form is required for the claim, but the written claim must identify the name of the claimant and describe generally the benefit to which the claimant believes he is entitled. The claim may be delivered personally during normal business hours or mailed to the Committee.
Written Claim
10.3 . The Committee will determine whether, or to what extent, the claim may be allowed or denied under the terms of the Plan. If the claim is wholly or partially denied, the claimant shall be so informed by written notice within 90 days after the day the claim is submitted unless special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim. If such an extension of time for processing is required, written notice of the extension
Committee Determination
 
shall be furnished to the claimant prior to the termination of the initial 90-day period. Such extension may not exceed an additional 90 days from the end of the initial 90-day period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Plan expects to render the final decision. If notice of denial of a claim (in whole or in part) is not furnished within the initial 90-day period after the claim is submitted (or, if applicable, the extended 90-day period), the claimant shall consider that his claim has been denied just as if he had received actual notice of denial.
10.4 . The notice informing the claimant that his claim has been wholly or partially denied shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include:
Notice of Determination
 
 
 
 
10.5 . If the claim is wholly or partially denied, the claimant (or his authorized representative) may file an appeal of the denied claim with the Committee requesting that the claim be reviewed. The Committee shall conduct a full and fair review of each appealed claim and its denial. Unless the Committee notifies the claimant that due to the nature of the benefit and other attendant circumstances he is entitled to a greater period of time within which to submit his request for review of a denied claim, the claimant shall have 60 days after he (or his authorized representative) receives written notice of denial of his claim within which such request must be submitted to the Committee.
Appeal
10.6 . The request for review of a denied claim must be made in writing. In connection with making such request, the claimant or his authorized representative may:
Request for Review
 
 
10.7 . The decision of the Committee regarding the appeal shall be promptly given to the claimant in writing and shall normally be given no later than 60 days following the receipt of the request for review. However, if special circumstances (for example, if the Committee decides to hold a hearing on the appeal) require a further extension of time for processing, the decision shall be rendered as soon as possible, but no later than 120 days after receipt of the request for review. However, if the Committee holds regularly scheduled meetings at least quarterly, a decision on review shall be made by no later than the date of the meeting which immediately follows the Plan's receipt of a request for review, unless the request is filed within 30 days preceding the date of such meeting. In such case, a decision may be made by no later than the date of the second meeting following the Plan's receipt of the request for review. If special circumstances (for example, if the Committee decides to hold a hearing on the appeal) require a further extension of time for processing, the decision shall be rendered as soon
Determination of Appeal
 
as possible, but no later than the third meeting following the Plan's receipt of the request for review. If special circumstances require that the decision will be made beyond the initial time for furnishing the decision, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the claimant (or his authorized representative) prior to the commencement of the extension. The decision on review shall be in writing and shall be furnished to the claimant or to his authorized representative within the appropriate time for the decision.
10.8 . The Committee may, in its sole discretion, decide to hold a hearing if it determines that a hearing is necessary or appropriate in order to make a full and fair review of the appealed claim.
Hearing
10.9 . The decision on review shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.
Decision
10.10 . A person must exhaust his rights to file a claim and to request a review of the denial of his claim before bringing any civil action to recover benefits due to him under the terms of the Plan, to enforce his rights under the terms of the Plan, or to clarify his rights to future benefits under the terms of the Plan.
Exhaustion of Appeals
10.11 . The Committee shall exercise its responsibility and authority under this claims procedure as a fiduciary and, in such capacity, shall have the discretionary authority and responsibility (1) to interpret and construe the Plan and any rules or regulations under the Plan, (2) to determine the eligibility of Employees to participate in the Plan, and the rights of Participants to receive benefits under the Plan, and (3) to make factual determinations in connection with any of the foregoing. Benefits under the Plan shall be paid only if the Committee decides in its discretion that the applicant is entitled to benefits under the Plan.
Committee's Authority
10.12 . Any civil action brought with respect to a decision of the Committee on review shall be brought within one year of the mailing of the written decision to the claimant.
Civil Action
11.1 . The Company's obligation to the Participant under this Plan shall be an unfunded and unsecured promise to pay. The rights of a Participant or Beneficiary under this Plan shall be solely those of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. The Company shall not be obligated under any circumstances to set aside or hold assets to fund its financial obligations under this Plan.
Nature of Obligation
11.2 . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may, in its sole discretion establish such accounts, trusts, insurance policies or arrangements, or any other mechanisms it deems necessary or appropriate to account for or fund its obligations under the Plan. Any assets which the Company may set aside, acquire or hold to help cover its financial liabilities under this Plan are and remain general assets of the Company subject to the claims of its creditors. The Company does not give, and the Plan does not give, any beneficial ownership interest in any assets of the Company to a Participant or Beneficiary. All rights of ownership in
Financing
 
any assets are and remain in the Company. Any general asset used or acquired by the Company in connection with the liabilities it has assumed under this Plan shall not be deemed to be held under any trust for the benefit of the Participant or any Beneficiary, and no general asset shall be considered security for the performance of the obligations of the Company. Any asset shall remain a general, unpledged, and unrestricted asset of the Company. The Company's liability for payment of benefits shall be determined only under the provisions of this Plan, as it may be amended from time to time.
12.1 . Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give any person the right to remain in the employ of the Company or affect the right of the Company to terminate any Participant's employment with or without cause.
No Right to Employment
12.2 . No right or benefit under the Plan shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge. Any attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge these benefits shall be void. No right or benefit under this Plan shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts, contracts, liabilities, or torts of the person entitled to the benefit. If any Participant or Beneficiary under the Plan should become bankrupt or attempt to anticipate, alienate, sell, assign, pledge, encumber or charge any right to a benefit hereunder, then the right or benefit, in the discretion of the Committee, shall cease. In these circumstances, the Committee may hold or apply the benefit payment or payments, or any part of it, for the benefit of the Participant or his Beneficiary, the Participant's spouse, children, or other dependents, or any of them, in any manner and in any portion that the Committee may deem proper. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by Section 409A of the Code and subject to Section 6.6, the Committee shall honor a judgment, order or decree from a state domestic relations court which requires the payment of part or all of a Participant's or Beneficiary's interest under this Plan to an "alternate payee" as defined in Section 414(p) of the Code.
No Assignment
12.3 . Any amount required to be withheld under applicable Federal, state and local tax laws (including any amounts required to be withheld under Section 3121(v) of the Code) will be withheld in such manner as the Committee will determine and any payment under the Plan will be reduced by the amount so withheld, as well as by any other lawful withholding.
Withholding
12.4 . This Plan shall be construed and administered in accordance with the laws of the State of North Carolina to the extent that such laws are not preempted by Federal law.
Governing Law
12.5 . The Make-Whole Account and Supplemental Account, if any, of each Spectra Energy Participant maintained under the Plan immediately prior to the Distribution Date shall be transferred to the Spectra Energy Corp Executive Cash Balance Plan and assumed by Spectra Energy Corp as of the Distribution Date. Each such Spectra Energy Participant shall have no further rights under the Plan immediately after his Make-Whole Account and Supplemental Account, if any, are transferred to the Spectra Energy Corp Executive Cash Balance Plan and assumed by Spectra Energy Corp in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Employee Matters Agreement by and between Duke Energy Corporation and Spectra Energy Corp (the "Employee Matters Agreement"). Capitalized terms used in this Section 12.5 that are not defined in this Plan shall have the meaning set forth in the Employee Matters Agreement.
Transfer of Accounts
 
12.6 . It is intended that Part II of the Plan comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so as to prevent the inclusion in gross income of any amounts deferred hereunder in a taxable year that is prior to the taxable year or years in which such amounts would otherwise actually be paid or made available to Participants or Beneficiaries. This Plan shall be construed, administered, and governed in a manner that effects such intent, and the Company shall not take any action that would be inconsistent with such intent. Although the Company shall use its best efforts to avoid the imposition of taxation, interest and penalties under Section 409A of the Code, the tax treatment of deferrals under this Plan is not warranted or guaranteed. Neither the Company, the other members of the Affiliated Group, their respective directors, officers, employees and advisors, the Board, nor any committee shall be held liable for any taxes, interest, penalties or other monetary amounts owed by any Participant, Beneficiary or other taxpayer as a result of the Plan. Any reference in this Plan to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section 409A of the Code by the U.S. Department of Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. For purposes of the Plan, the phrase "permitted by Section 409A of the Code," or words or phrases of similar import, shall mean that the event or circumstance shall only be permitted to the extent it would not cause an amount deferred or payable under the Plan to be includible in the gross income of a Participant or Beneficiary under Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
12.7 . Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, including any provision that requires the use of a written instrument, the Committee may establish procedures for the use of electronic or other media in communications and transactions between the Plan or the Committee and Participants and Beneficiaries. Electronic or other media may include, but are not limited to, e-mail, the Internet, intranet systems and automated telephonic response systems.
Electronic or Other Media
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this amendment and restatement of the Plan is executed on behalf of Duke Energy Corporation this 2nd day of July, 2012.
 
 
This Exhibit A is used to determine the benefits provided under Section 6.9 to Progress Nonqualified Plan Participants (or their Eligible Spouses or Beneficiaries).
. A Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who incurs a Separation from Service on or after his Progress Normal Retirement Date shall be eligible for the normal retirement benefit, which is a monthly amount equal to his Target Normal Retirement Benefit reduced by the sum of (a) his Assumed Normal Retirement Pension Benefit and (b) his Social Security Benefit.
1. Normal Retirement Benefit
. A Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who incurs a Separation from Service upon or after his attainment of age 55 with at least 15 years of Service (except for purposes of calculating benefits payable under Paragraph 3 and 4 of this Exhibit A below, as applicable) but prior to his Progress Normal Retirement Date, shall be eligible for the early retirement benefit, which is a monthly amount equal to his Target Early Retirement Benefit reduced by the sum of (a) his Assumed Early Retirement Pension Benefit and (b) his Social Security Benefit; provided, however, such benefit will be reduced, where applicable, by the following: (i) the amount of 2.5% for each year that such benefit is received prior to his Progress Normal Retirement Date, and (ii) if such eligible Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's projected years of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date are less than 15, his Target Early Retirement Benefit and his Assumed Early Retirement Pension Benefit shall be calculated based upon his actual years of Service at his Progress Early Retirement Date rather than upon his projected years of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date.
2. Early Retirement Benefit
. A Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who incurs a Separation from Service after completing 10 or more years of Service but who is not eligible for a retirement benefit under Paragraph 1 or 2 of this Exhibit A shall be eligible for one of the following benefits: (a) if at Separation from Service the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is not entitled to a deferred vested Progress Qualified Retirement Pension under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan or an early retirement Progress Qualified Retirement Pension under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, his deferred vested benefit shall be a monthly amount equal to his Target Deferred Vested Benefit reduced by his Social Security Benefit; (b) if at Separation from Service such eligible Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is entitled to a deferred vested Progress Qualified Retirement Pension under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, his deferred vested benefit shall be a monthly amount equal to his Target Deferred Vested Benefit reduced by the sum of (i) his Assumed Deferred Vested Pension Benefit and (ii) his Social Security Benefit; (c) if at his Separation from Service such eligible Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is entitled to an early retirement Progress Qualified Retirement Pension pursuant to Section 5.02 of the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, his deferred vested benefit shall be a monthly amount equal to his Target Deferred Vested Benefit reduced by the sum of (a) his Assumed Early Retirement Pension Benefit and (b) his Social Security Benefit; provided, however, such Assumed Early Retirement Pension Benefit shall be calculated at his Separation from Service as provided in this Exhibit A, but without regard to projected pay credits, and, if applicable, projected transition credits.
3. Deferred Vested Benefit
 
. For purposes of Section 6.9, this Exhibit A, and sections expressly stated, the following terms shall have the following meanings unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context:
4. Definitions
. Shall have, for purposes of determining whether a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant has incurred a Separation from Service with the Affiliated Group, the meaning provided in Section 2.1, except that the phrase "at least 45 percent" is deleted in each place that it appears and replaced with the phrase "at least 50 percent".
Affiliated Group
. Shall mean the monthly benefit of the deferred vested Progress Qualified Retirement Pension to commence on his Progress Normal Retirement Date payable in the form of an annuity to which a separated Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant would be entitled under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, calculated with the following assumptions based on such Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's marital status at the time benefits hereunder commence: (a) In the case of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant with an Eligible Spouse, in the form of a 50% Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity as provided in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan. (b) In the case of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant without an Eligible Spouse, in the form of a Single Life Annuity as provided in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan. (c) Without regard to any other benefit payment option under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan.
Assumed Deferred Vested Pension Benefit
. Shall mean the monthly benefit of the normal retirement Progress Qualified Retirement Pension payable in the form of an annuity to which a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant would be entitled under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan projected at his Progress Normal Retirement Date based on the following:
Assumed Early Retirement Pension Benefit
 
 
 
. Shall mean the monthly benefit of the normal retirement Progress Qualified Retirement Pension payable in the form of an annuity to which a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant would be entitled under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan if he retired at his Progress Normal Retirement Date, calculated with the following assumptions based on his marital status at the time benefits hereunder commence: (a) In the case of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant with an Eligible Spouse, in the form of a 50% Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity as provided in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan. (b) In the case of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant without an Eligible Spouse, in the form of a Single Life Annuity as provided in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan. (c) Without regard to any other benefit payment option under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan.
Assumed Normal Retirement Pension Benefit
. Shall mean the benefit under Article IV of the Plan (, the sum of the balance in the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Make-Whole Benefit Account and Supplemental Benefit Account attributable to pay and supplemental credits made from the Progress Merger Effective Time until Separation from Service) determined at the time payment actually occurs under Section 6.9(b), actuarially adjusted to the payment form in which the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Frozen Progress Nonqualified Plan Benefit is payable at commencement (for purposes of clarity, single life annuity, single life annuity with 120 monthly payments guaranteed, or 50% Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity, as applicable). Any actuarial adjustment shall be determined using the mortality and interest assumptions under the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan as in effect from time to time for converting the cash balance account to a form of payment. For purposes of clarity, note that, as of the Progress Merger Effective Time, the Duke Energy Retirement Cash Balance Plan uses the applicable mortality table as defined in Section 417(e)(3) of the Code and the applicable interest rate as provided in Section 417(e) of the Code for the month of August prior to the beginning of the year during which commencement is to occur to convert the cash balance to a single life annuity and uses the 1983 Group Annuity Mortality Table weighted 50% male and 50% female and 7% interest compounded annually to convert the single life annuity to other optional forms of payment.
ECBP Benefit for Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant
i.e.
. Shall mean the spouse of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who, under the laws of the State where the marriage was contracted, is deemed married to that Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant on the date on which the payments from this Plan are to begin to the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant, except that, for purposes of Section 6.9(c) and (d), Eligible Spouse shall mean a person who is married to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant for a period of at least one year prior to his death. For purposes of applying Sections 6.8, 11.1, 11.2, 12.2 and 12.6 of the Plan, an Eligible Spouse of a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant shall be deemed to be that Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's "Beneficiary".
Eligible Spouse
. Shall have the meaning given to such term in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan.
50% Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity
. Shall mean, a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's average monthly Progress Salary (as defined below) during the 36 completed calendar months of highest compensation within the 120-month period immediately preceding the Progress Merger Effective Time. In determining average monthly Progress Salary (i) annual incentives and other similar payments shall be deemed received in twelve (12) equal payments beginning with the eleventh preceding month and ending with the month such payments were actually made (for purposes of
Final Average Salary
 
clarity, the payment must actually have been made prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time for such payment to be included in determining Final Average Salary), and (ii) amounts of compensation deferred under any deferred compensation plan or arrangement shall be deemed received in the months such payments would have been received assuming no deferral had occurred. For years of Service granted under the terms of a written employment agreement, Progress Salary during each such month is deemed to be zero dollars ($0.00) for purposes of calculating Final Average Salary. Solely for purposes of determining a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Minimum Progress Nonqualified Plan Benefit under Section 6.9(a)(ii) and the Target Pre-Retirement Death Benefit determined as of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's actual date of death under Section 6.9(d)(ii), the Final Average Salary (as determined above) shall be increased by the increase in the Consumer Price Index Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers ("CPI-W") for the period from the Progress Merger Effective Time to the earliest to occur of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death, Separation from Service, Progress Early Retirement Date, or Progress Normal Retirement Date, whichever is applicable.
. Shall mean the Normal Retirement Benefit, Early Retirement Benefit or Deferred Vested Benefit, as applicable, determined under Paragraph 1, 2 or 3, as applicable, of this Exhibit A as if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant incurred a Separation from Service as of the Progress Merger Effective Time, subject, however, to the following:
Frozen Progress Nonqualified Plan Benefit
 
 
 
 
. Shall mean the Normal Retirement Benefit, Early Retirement Benefit or Deferred Vested Benefit, as applicable, determined under this Exhibit A as of the time of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's actual Separation from Service, subject to the following:
Minimum Progress Nonqualified Plan Benefit
 
 
 
 
. Shall mean the date on which a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who qualifies for the early retirement benefit of Paragraph 2 of this Exhibit A retires from the employ of the Affiliated Group.
Progress Early Retirement Date
. Has the meaning provided to the term "Effective Time" in the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of January 8, 2011, by and among the Duke Energy Corporation, Diamond Acquisition Corporation and Progress Energy, Inc., which date is
Progress Merger Effective Time
July 2, 2012.
. Shall mean the first day of the calendar month coinciding with or next following the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's 65th birthday.
Progress Normal Retirement Date
. Shall have the meaning given that term in Article I.
Progress Nonqualified Plan
. Shall have the meaning given that term in Section 3.3.
Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant
. Shall mean a level monthly annuity which is payable under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan as of the Benefit Commencement Date (as defined in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan) if the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant elected an annuity form of benefit.
Progress Qualified Retirement Pension
. Shall mean the "Progress Energy Pension Plan" (as amended effective January 1, 2002) as it may be amended from time to time thereafter, and shall include, if applicable, any plan into which the Progress Energy Pension Plan is merged.
Progress Qualified Retirement Plan
. Shall mean the sum of: (1) The annual base compensation paid prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time by Progress Energy, Inc. and its participating affiliates to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant, and (2) annual cash awards made prior to the Progress
Progress Salary
 
Merger Effective Time under incentive compensation programs of Progress Energy, Inc. and its participating affiliates, excluding, however, any payment made under Progress Energy's Long-Term Compensation Program or Progress Energy's equity incentive plans, and (3) amounts of annual compensation deferred prior to the Progress Merger Effective Time under any deferred compensation plan or arrangement of Progress Energy, Inc. and its participating affiliates (including, without limitation, the "Executive Deferred Compensation Plan," the "Deferred Compensation Plan for Key Management Employees of Progress Energy, Inc.," the "Progress Energy, Inc. Management Deferred Compensation Plan" and the "Progress Energy 401(k) Savings and Stock Ownership Plan") and which, but for the deferral, would have been reflected in Internal Revenue Service Form W-2.
. Shall have the same meaning as "Eligibility Service" as provided in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, plus any additional years of service that may have been granted to the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant in connection with the Progress Nonqualified Plan. For purposes of clarity, Service for purposes of calculating the Frozen Progress Nonqualified Plan Benefit is determined (and frozen) as of the Progress Merger Effective Time.
Service
. Shall have the meaning given to such term in the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan.
Single Life Annuity
. Shall mean the monthly amount of benefit which a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is or would be entitled to receive at age 65 as a primary insurance amount under the federal Social Security Act, as amended, whether or not he applies for such benefit, and even though he may lose part or all of such benefit through delay in applying for it, by making application prior to age 65 for a reduced benefit, by entering into covered employment, or for any other reason. The amount of such Social Security Benefit to which the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant is or would be entitled shall be estimated by the Committee for the purposes of this Plan as of the January 1 of the year in which his Separation from Service occurs on the following basis: (a) For a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant entitled to a normal retirement benefit, on the basis of the federal Social Security Act as in effect on the January 1 coincident with or next preceding his Progress Normal Retirement Date (regardless of any retroactive changes made by legislation enacted after said January 1); (b) For a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant entitled to an early retirement benefit, on the basis of the federal Social Security Act as in effect on the January 1 coincident with or next preceding his Progress Early Retirement Date (regardless of any retroactive change made by legislation enacted after said January 1), assuming that his employment, and Progress Salary in effect at the Effective Time, continued to age 65; or (c) For a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant entitled to a deferred vested benefit under Paragraph 3 of this Exhibit A, on the basis of the federal Social Security Act as in effect on the January 1 coincident with or next preceding his Separation from Service (regardless of any retroactive change made by legislation enacted after said January 1), assuming that his employment, and Progress Salary in effect at the Progress Merger Effective Time, continued to age 65.
Social Security Benefit
. Shall mean the actual monthly benefit payable to an Eligible Spouse under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, assuming (i) the Eligible Spouse is the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Beneficiary under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan, and (ii) the Eligible Spouse commences payment under the Progress Qualified Retirement Plan in the form of an annuity in the month following the month of the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's death.
Spouse's Pension
 
. Shall mean an amount equal to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary determined at his Progress Early Retirement Date multiplied by 2.25% for each projected year of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date up to a maximum of 62%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who was a member of Progress Energy Inc.'s Senior Management Committee on December 31, 2008, the Target Early Retirement Benefit shall be determined by multiplying the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary by 4% for each projected year of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date up to a maximum of 62%.
Target Early Retirement Benefit
. Shall mean an amount equal to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary determined at his Progress Normal Retirement Date multiplied by 2.25% for each year of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date up to a maximum of 62%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who was a member of Progress Energy Inc.'s Senior Management Committee on December 31, 2008, the Target Normal Retirement Benefit shall be determined by multiplying the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary by 4% for each projected year of Service at his Progress Normal Retirement Date up to a maximum of 62%.
Target Normal Retirement Benefit
. Shall mean an amount equal to a deceased Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary determined at his death multiplied by 2.25% for each year of Service at his death up to a maximum of 62%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who was a member of Progress Energy Inc.'s Senior Management Committee on December 31, 2008, the Target Pre-Retirement Death Benefit shall be determined by multiplying the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary by 4% for each year of Service at his death up to a maximum of 62%.
Target Pre-Retirement Death Benefit
. Shall mean an amount equal to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary determined at his Separation from Service multiplied by 2.25% for each year of Service at his Separation from Service up to a maximum of 62%. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to a Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant who was a member of Progress Energy Inc.'s Senior Management Committee on December 31, 2008, the Target Deferred Vested Benefit shall be determined by multiplying the Progress Nonqualified Plan Participant's Final Average Salary by 4% for each year of Service at his Separation from Service up to a maximum of 62%.
Target Deferred Vested Benefit
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
.The Stock Ownership Guideline for nonemployee directors is 5 x the cash retainer (, currently 5 x $50,000, or $250,000). This amount will increase to $375,000 when the cash retainer is increased to $75,000.
Stock Ownership Guideline
i.e.

Exhibit 99.2
 
NEWS RELEASE
Duke Energy Corporation
P.O. Box 1009
Charlotte, NC 28201-1009
July 3, 2012
 
CHARLOTTE, NC  Duke Energy Corporation today confirmed the closing of its previously announced merger with Progress Energy Inc., effective July 2, 2012.
The new company will be known as Duke Energy and will remain headquartered in Charlotte, with substantial operations in Raleigh, N.C. Duke Energy will trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK.
In accordance with the terms of the merger agreement, Progress Energy Inc. has become a wholly owned direct subsidiary of Duke Energy, creating the country's largest electric utility as measured by enterprise value, market capitalization, generation assets, customers and numerous other criteria.
Duke Energy also announced today the newly constituted board of directors has appointed Jim Rogers as president and chief executive officer of the combined company, effective immediately. Rogers will also maintain his responsibilities as chairman of the company's board. Bill Johnson has resigned as president and chief executive officer of the combined company, by mutual agreement.
 
 
"The new Duke Energy will be better able to serve our 7.1 million customers' energy needs in a safe, reliable, affordable and increasingly clean manner," said Rogers, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Duke Energy. "As a combined organization, we will work to deliver benefits to our customers, create value for our shareholders, and enhance the career opportunities of our employees."
Rogers continued, "Over the last several months, team members from Duke Energy and Progress Energy worked diligently to ensure we hit the ground running today  day one. I'd also like to thank the regulatory and legal teams that were instrumental in getting us over the finish line.
"I look forward to working together with the executives from Progress and all employees of the combined company to ensure we are constantly striving to improve our levels of safety, operational excellence and customer satisfaction," he added. "I am committed to the successful execution of our strategy and am pleased to move forward as one company."
"Having served as CEO of Duke and its predecessor companies for more than 23 years, Jim Rogers is well-suited to lead the integration effort and to drive our combined businesses forward," said Ann Maynard Gray, lead director of Duke Energy's board of directors. "The board of directors looks forward to working with Jim and the rest of the executive team to enhance our position as a utility with financial strength and a greater ability to meet the needs of our customers."
Ms. Gray continued, "Bill Johnson has been instrumental in helping us close the merger with Progress Energy, and we wish him well in his future endeavors."
 
 
2012 Earnings Guidance
On a standalone basis, Duke Energy had an adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) guidance range for 2012 of $1.40 to $1.45. Due to the effect of the 1-for-3 reverse stock split, which was completed in connection with this merger transaction, this guidance range is the equivalent of $4.20 to $4.35 per share. The combined company continues to target a 2012 adjusted diluted EPS guidance range of $4.20 to $4.35.
The new Duke Energy has approximately $49 billion in market capitalization, total assets of more than $100 billion, and 7.1 million electric customers in the Carolinas, Florida, Indiana, Kentucky and Ohio. The regulated utilities will comprise a higher proportion of Duke Energy's post-merger business mix.
Duke Energy's major commercial operations include Duke Energy International, which operates power plants in Central and South America; Duke Energy Renewables, which develops and owns wind and solar projects in the U.S.; and Duke Energy's Midwest generation and Duke Energy Retail, which generate, market and sell electricity in the Midwest.
Under the terms of the merger agreement, each share of Progress Energy common stock has been converted into the right to receive 0.87083 shares of Duke Energy common stock (which reflects the impact of the 1-for-3 reverse stock split that occurred immediately prior to the closing of the merger).
The reverse stock split is designed to reduce the number of outstanding Duke Energy shares.
When the merger was announced on Jan. 10, 2011, the transaction value totaled $26 billion, including Progress Energy's debt. Today, based on Duke Energy's share price and including Progress Energy's debt, the transaction is valued at about $32 billion.
 
 
A fact sheet detailing the new Duke Energy can be found at http://www.duke-energy.com/pdfs/de-factsheet.pdf.
To view a video sampling of the company's generation assets, go to:
http://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLFE0D525E3BD82E3C&feature=view_all
Conference Call and Webcast
Jim Rogers, Ann Maynard Gray and Lynn Good will discuss this announcement on a brief conference call today at 8:30 a.m. ET.
The call will be available by telephone and audio webcast.
To gain access to the webcast, which will be listen-only, please go to the investor's section of the Duke Energy website at http://www.duke-energy.com/investors/ and click on the audio webcast link. Please log on to the website at least 10 minutes prior to the call to register, download and install any necessary audio software. A replay of the webcast also will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. ET today.
Webcast Instructions:
The telephone number for today's teleconference is 866-610-1072 for U.S. callers or +1-973-935-2840 for international callers. Participants will be asked to provide their name and business affiliation. The conference access code is 97522658. A telephone replay will be available beginning at 11:30 a.m. ET today by dialing 800-585-8367 or +1-404-537-3406 for international callers, and entering conference access code 97522658.
Teleconference Instructions:
About Duke Energy
Duke Energy is the largest electric power holding company in the United States with more than $100 billion in total assets. Its regulated utility operations serve
 
 
approximately 7.1 million electric customers located in six states in the Southeast and Midwest. Its commercial power and international business segments own and operate diverse power generation assets in North America and Latin America, including a growing portfolio of renewable energy assets in the United States. Headquartered in Charlotte, N.C., Duke Energy is a Fortune 250 company traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol DUK. More information about the company is available on the Internet at: www.duke-energy.com.
Forward-Looking Information
This document contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are typically identified by words or phrases such as "may," "will," "should," "anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "intend," "plan," "believe," "target," "forecast," and other words and terms of similar meaning. Forward-looking statements involve estimates, expectations, projections, goals, forecasts, assumptions, risks and uncertainties. Duke Energy cautions readers that any forward-looking statement is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statement. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the merger involving Duke Energy and Progress Energy, including future financial and operating results, Duke Energy's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions, and other statements that are not historical facts. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements include risks and uncertainties relating to: the risk that the businesses will not be integrated successfully; the risk that the cost savings and any other synergies from the transaction may not be fully realized or may take longer to realize than expected; disruption from the transaction making it more difficult to maintain relationships with customers, employees or suppliers; the diversion of management time on merger-related issues; general worldwide economic conditions and related uncertainties; the effect of changes in governmental regulations; and other factors discussed or referred to in the "Risk Factors" section of each of Progress Energy's and Duke Energy's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Additional risks and uncertainties are identified and discussed in Progress Energy's and Duke Energy's reports filed with the SEC and available at the SEC's website at http://www.sec.gov/. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date of the particular statement and Duke Energy undertakes no obligation to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

Exhibit 99.3
Duke Energy Corporation
526 South Church Street
Charlotte, North Carolina 28202
Ladies and Gentlemen:
We have acted as special counsel to Duke Energy Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), in connection with the proposed merger (the "") of Diamond Acquisition Corporation, a North Carolina corporation and a direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Duke Energy (""), with and into Progress Energy, Inc., a North Carolina corporation ("") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") dated as of January 8, 2011, by and among Duke, Merger Sub, and Progress. At your request, we are rendering our opinion concerning certain United States federal income tax matters. All capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Agreement, and any reference to any document includes a reference to any exhibit, appendix or similar attachment thereto.
Duke
Merger
Merger Sub
Progress
Agreement
In providing our opinion, we have reviewed and relied upon: (i) the Agreement; (ii) the registration statement on Form S-4 filed in connection with the Merger and the joint proxy statement/prospectus contained therein, as amended through the date hereof (the ""); (iii) the officer's certificate of Duke and Merger Sub, dated the date hereof and delivered to us for the purposes of this opinion (the "") and the officer's certificate of Progress, dated the date hereof and delivered to us for the purposes of this opinion (the "," and together with the Duke Officer's Certificate, the ""); and (iv) such other documents as we have deemed necessary or appropriate for purposes of our opinion.
Form S-4
Duke Officer's Certificate
Progress Officer's Certificate
Officer's
Certificates
Duke Energy Corporation
July 2, 2012
Page 2
 
In addition, we have assumed that (i) the transaction will be consummated in accordance with the provisions of the Agreement and as described in the Form S-4, without amendment, waiver or modification of any of the terms or conditions set forth therein, (ii) the statements concerning the transaction and the parties thereto set forth in the Agreement are true, complete and correct, and the Form S-4 is true, complete and correct, (iii) the statements and representations (which statements and representations we have neither investigated nor verified) contained in the Officer's Certificates are true, complete and correct and will remain true, complete and correct at all times up to and including the Effective Time, (iv) all statements and representations qualified by knowledge, belief or materiality or comparable qualification are and will be true, complete and correct as if made without such qualification, (v) all documents submitted to us as originals are authentic, all documents submitted to us as copies conform to the originals, all relevant documents have been or will be duly executed in the form presented to us and that all natural persons are of legal capacity, (vi) Duke, Merger Sub and Progress and their respective subsidiaries will treat the Merger for United States federal income tax purposes in a manner consistent with the opinion set forth below, and (vii) all applicable reporting requirements have been or will be satisfied. If any of the above described assumptions are untrue for any reason, then the continuing validity of our opinion as expressed below may be adversely affected.
Based upon and subject to the foregoing and the exceptions, limitations and qualifications described in the section entitled "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" in the Form S-4, we are of the opinion that for United States federal income tax purposes (i) the Merger will constitute a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "") and (ii) a U.S. holder (as defined in the section entitled "Material U.S. Federal Income Tax Consequences of the Merger" in the Form S-4) of Progress Common Stock whose shares of Progress Common Stock are converted into the right to receive shares of Duke Common Stock in the Merger generally will not recognize gain or loss, except to the extent of cash, if any, received in lieu of a fractional share of Duke Common Stock.
Code
Except as expressly set forth above, we render no other opinion, including, without limitation, any opinion as to the United States federal, state, local, foreign, or other tax consequences. Our opinion as expressed above is based on current provisions of the Code, Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, published pronouncements of the Internal Revenue Service and case law, any of which may be changed at any time with retroactive effect. Any change in applicable laws or the facts and circumstances surrounding the transaction, or any inaccuracy in the statements, facts, assumptions or representations upon which we have relied, may affect the continuing validity of our opinion as set forth above. We assume no responsibility to inform Duke of any such change or inaccuracy that may occur or come to our attention.
Duke Energy Corporation
July 2, 2012
Page 3
 
We are furnishing this opinion to Duke. Furthermore, we are furnishing this opinion solely in connection with the Merger and this opinion is not to be relied upon, used, circulated, quoted, or otherwise referred to for any other purpose without our prior written consent. We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Current Report on Form 8-K to be filed by Duke in connection with the consummation of the Merger, and to the references therein to us and this opinion. In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
DLP/vgk


