FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20030725143638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ----------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): July 24, 2003 CONSOL ENERGY INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
Delaware 001-14901 51-0337383 (State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.)
1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (ZIP Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (412) 831-4000 Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits Exhibits Exhibit 99.1: Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated July 24, 2003 Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On July 24, 2003, CONSOL Energy announced its results of operations for the three months ended June 30, 2003. A copy of the related press release for the three months ended June 30, 2003 is being filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. [Signature on following page.]
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. CONSOL ENERGY INC. By: /s/ William J. Lyons -------------------- William J. Lyons Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Controller Date: July 24, 2003
EXHIBIIT INDEX 99.1 Press Release of CONSOL Energy dated July 24, 2003.

Exhibit 99.1 [GRAPHIC APPEARS HERE] For Immediate Release Contact: Thomas F. Hoffman (412) 831-4060 CONSOL Energy Reports Second Quarter Results Net Income, Cash from Operations, EBITDA and EBIT Improve, Gas Segment Earnings Double PITTSBURGH (July 24, 2003) - CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a producer of high-Btu bituminous coal and coalbed methane gas, reported net income of $10.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for its quarter ended June 30, 2003, compared with net income of $9.0 million, or $0.11 per diluted share, in the same quarter a year earlier. Net cash from operating activities was $195.7 million for the June 2003 quarter, compared with $44.8 million for the same quarter a year earlier. *Includes investment in equity affiliates. Does not include major acquisitions. In millions of dollars except earnings per share. "Second quarter results were improved by almost every measure," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "Earnings were up, coal and gas prices were up, coal volumes from ongoing operations and gas volumes were up, we generated
- 2 - substantial cash and total debt has been reduced 31.8 percent compared with a year ago and 25.1 percent since the beginning of the year." Harvey said that United States energy markets during the quarter were somewhat erratic. "Coal demand during the quarter showed no consistent trend," he said. "Cool weather in the spring and earlier summer dampened demand, but customer inventories are still lower than a year ago and prices remain higher than a year ago." Harvey said the relative strength of coal prices was due to continued tightness in coal supplies, particularly in the eastern United States. "Gas markets generally weakened as the second quarter unfolded," Harvey noted, "although prices remain well above prices a year ago." He continued, "Like coal markets, the cool weather during the second quarter dampened demand for gas, leading to higher than expected storage injections and a softening of prices." Harvey noted, however, that CONSOL Energy largely was unaffected by changes in energy markets during the quarter because most of the company's coal and gas production had already been sold at prices higher than a year earlier. "In the second quarter, our story unfolded on the production side," he said. "We had already locked in higher prices." Harvey said that coal production volumes from ongoing operations and gas volumes were improved period-to-period. "However, coal production volumes were less than we forecasted, which impacted the bottom line." Analysis of the Quarter In the quarter-to-quarter comparison, revenue increased 4.5 percent because of higher gas prices, higher gas sales volumes and higher average realized price per ton of coal produced. Revenues from the sales of gas increased 44.6 percent. In the 2003 period, cost of goods sold increased 5.8 percent due to higher mining costs principally related to higher medical costs for active and retired employees and increased salaried pension costs, higher gas royalty payments due to an increase in average sales prices and increased gas production volumes. These increases were partially offset by a 21.8 percent decrease in closed and idle mines costs. Net income improved 17.8 percent, EBIT improved 163.9 percent, net cash provided by operating activities improved 336.8 percent and EBITDA improved 13.6 percent. Net cash from operating activities was improved because the company received approximately $68 million from the settlement of an export sales tax court case and because of $50.0 million received from the securitization of accounts receivable. Total debt was down 31.8 percent compared with the same period a year earlier, reflecting the substantial reduction in commercial paper outstanding.
- 3 - Coal Operations Sales and production in millions of tons, including equity affiliates. Prices and costs in dollars per ton.*Amounts may not add due to rounding. Production income for the coal segment, including equity affiliates, declined 4.9 percent in the period-to-period comparison, due to a 2.5 percent decline in sales of company-produced coal. Production from ongoing operations was improved 2.4 million tons, but total production in the period-to period comparison declined 1.2 million tons because some mines producing in the June 2002 quarter later depleted, were sold, or were idled on a long-term basis and were no longer producing in the June 2003 period. Operating costs per ton of coal produced (including equity affiliates) increased 1.3 percent, and total costs per ton of coal produced (including equity affiliates) increased 2.2 percent. Operating costs on a unit basis increased due to decreases in production volumes. Total costs on a unit basis increased due to a decrease in production volumes, higher active and retired employee medical benefits and increased salaried employee pension costs. The Loveridge Mine continued to make repairs in the aftermath of a fire that occurred in February. Loveridge is now scheduled to resume development work in the fourth quarter and initiate longwall production in April 2004. Average realized prices for company-produced coal improved 2.2 percent period-to-period, reflecting higher domestic steam coal prices received on contracts previously negotiated.
- 4 - Gas Operations Volumes, including equity affiliates, in billions of cubic feet. Prices and costs shown as dollars per 1,000 cubic feet. Other costs include: severance taxes; gob well costs; selling, direct and general administrative costs not otherwise allocated; and other costs not related to lifting or gathering. Operating income from gas operations nearly doubled in the period-to-period comparison, up 98.9 percent. Gas sales volumes improved 5.0 percent period-to-period. Continued drilling of additional wells on proved reserves increased gas production volumes for sale. Net gas price received after accounting for hedging losses increased 36.3 percent in the period-to-period comparison, reflecting continued strong demand for gas in the United States. Unit operating costs net of production taxes increased 6.8 percent period-to-period due to increased lifting and gathering costs. Average gross daily production rose to 138.9 million cubic feet per day compared with 130.9 in the June 2002 quarter. Developments During the Quarter In April, Standard and Poor's placed CONSOL Energy on CreditWatch with negative implications. S&P stated this was due to CONSOL Energy's exposure to unfunded postretirement liabilities, including defined benefit pension and medical
- 5 - liabilities. Subsequently in July, S&P lowered its ratings on CONSOL Energy. The company's corporate credit rating was lowered to `BB+'/'B' from `BBB-' / `A-3' with a stable outlook. The company's $485 million senior unsecured facility also was assigned a "BB+" rating. In April, CONSOL Energy established an Accounts Receivable Securitization facility that will provide up to $125 million of short-term funding. As of June 30, approximately $65 million was available. Costs for drawing against this facility are based on commercial paper interest rates. In May, CONSOL Energy filed an $800 million universal shelf registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission. In June, RWE AG, the owner of 74 percent of the common stock of CONSOL Energy, announced in an SEC filing that it was considering the disposition of some or all its shares. The disposition, if it occurs, could take various forms. RWE stated that it reserves the right not to dispose of any shares. Subsequent Events In July, CONSOL Energy announced the sale of its Emery Mine in Utah. Terms were not disclosed. The transaction is expected to close within 120 days. In July, Moody's Investors Service placed the Prime-2 short-term rating and Baa2 senior unsecured rating of CONSOL Energy, as well as another subsidiary rating, under review for possible downgrade. Also in July, CONSOL Energy announced an agreement with Triana Energy Inc. to explore and produce conventional gas in formations beneath CONSOL Energy's coalbed methane production in southwestern Virginia. Outlook CONSOL Energy assumes the following production results for the third quarter ending September 30, 2003, and for the full calendar year 2003: Coal sales and production in millions of tons, including equity affiliates; average realized price is for company-produced coal. Gas production and sales in billion cubic feet. Gas prices are in dollars per thousand cubic feet.
- 6 - CONSOL Energy has the following commitments or contracts to sell gas and coal in 2004: Harvey said he expected coal demand for the second half of the year to be within the normal range, assuming normal weather patterns and no further weakening in the United States economy. "As is often the case," said Harvey, "weather can have an impact on second half demand. However, the continued tightness of domestic coal supplies should counter all but the mildest summer weather." "We expect operating income from our gas segment to more than double this year compared with 2002," said Harvey. "Gas demand remains robust and prices should remain well above $4.00 per Mcf into 2004," he continued. "We expect to continue to ramp up gas production and hold our unit costs flat for the year." Harvey said the company has about half of its expected 2004 production sold at a price of $4.76/mcf. The company continually evaluates opportunities to contract for sale additional volumes of 2004 and 2005 production. Harvey said the company expects to earn $0.01 to $0.06 per diluted share in the third quarter ended September 30, 2003, and earn $0.64 to $0.69 per diluted share for the calendar year 2003. "We expect the third quarter to be weak because of higher coal segment costs related to major maintenance activity scheduled during the traditional miners vacation period and any remaining costs for repairing fire damage at Loveridge." CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States, and the largest exporter of U.S. coal. CONSOL Energy has 20 bituminous coal mining complexes in seven states and Australia. In addition, the company is one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, with daily gas production of approximately 135 million cubic feet. The company also produces electricity from coalbed methane at a joint-venture generating facility in Virginia. CONSOL Energy has annual revenues of $2.2 billion. It received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2002 Climate Protection Award and the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining 2002 National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in southern Illinois. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com. -------------------- Definition: EBIT is defined as earnings before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a
- 7 - substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows: Forward-looking statements: CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: the success or failure of CONSOL Energy's efforts to implement its business strategy; reliance on major customers and long-term contracts; the effects of market demand and price on performance; the ability to renew coal and gas sales agreements upon expiration; the price of coal and gas sold under any new sales agreements; fluctuating sales prices; contract penalties; actions of CONSOL Energy's competitors and CONSOL Energy's ability to respond to such actions; risks inherent in mining and gas production including geological conditions, mine and gas operations accidents; weather-related factors; results of litigation; the effects of government regulation; the risk of work stoppages; the risk of transportation disruptions that could impair CONSOL Energy's ability to sell coal and gas; management's ability to correctly estimate and accrue for contingent liabilities; and CONSOL Energy's ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to successfully finance, consummate the acquisition of, and integrate these candidates as part of its acquisition strategy.
CONSOL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS of INCOME (Unaudited) (Dollars in thousands - except per share data) - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Dollars in thousands - except per share data) - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (Dollars in thousands - except per share data) - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (Unaudited) (Dollars in thousands) - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (Dollars in Thousands - except per share data) - --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CONSOL Energy Inc. Financial and Operating Statistics 24-Jul-03


