FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20030918144132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.    Other Events and Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on September 18, 2003 regarding an agreement to sell 11.0 million shares of its common stock in a private placement. RWE AG, CONSOL Energy's largest shareholder, also agreed to sell in a private placement 14.1 million shares of CONSOL Energy common stock. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
CONSOL ENERGY INC.
 
By:
    /s/    W J. L
ILLIAM
YONS                        
William J. Lyons
Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
 
Dated: September 18, 2003
 
99.1    Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated September 18, 2003.

 
 
PITTSBURGH (September 18, 2003)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a leading producer of high-Btu bituminous coal and of coalbed methane gas, has agreed to sell 11.0 million primary shares of its common stock in a private placement sale. Concurrent with the sale of the primary shares, RWE of Essen, Germany, CONSOL Energy's largest shareholder, also has agreed to sell 14.1 million shares of its CONSOL Energy common stock in a private placement sale.
 
All shares will be sold at $17.82 per share. Expected net proceeds from the primary offering of approximately $190 million will be used to satisfy the financial assurance requirements of environmental reclamation and self-insurance employee benefits under various state and federal laws. Following the sale of the primary shares, CONSOL Energy will have 89.8 million shares of common stock outstanding. Following the sale of its shares, RWE will hold 43.9 million remaining shares of CONSOL Energy common stock, or 48.9% of total common shares outstanding.
 
The shares of common stock offered have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States, and the largest exporter of U.S. coal. CONSOL Energy has 20 bituminous coal mining complexes in seven states and in Australia. In addition, the company is one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, with daily gas production of approximately 135 million cubic feet. The company also produces electricity from coalbed methane at a joint-venture generating facility in Virginia. CONSOL Energy has annual revenues of $2.2 billion. It received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency 2002 Climate Protection Award, and received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining 2002 National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in southern Illinois. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
www.consolenergy.com
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following: the success or failure of CONSOL Energy's efforts to implement its business strategy; reliance on major customers and long-term contracts; the effects of market demand and price on performance; the ability to renew coal and gas sales agreements upon expiration; the price of coal and gas sold under any new sales agreements; fluctuating sales prices; contract penalties; actions of CONSOL Energy's competitors and CONSOL Energy's ability to respond to such actions; risks inherent in
Forward-looking statements:
mining and gas production including geological conditions, mine and gas operations accidents; weather-related factors; results of litigation; the effects of government regulation; the risk of work stoppages; the risk of transportation disruptions that could impair CONSOL Energy's ability to sell coal and gas; management's ability to correctly estimate and accrue for contingent liabilities; and CONSOL Energy's ability to identify suitable acquisition candidates and to successfully finance, consummate the acquisition of, and integrate these candidates as part of its acquisition strategy.
 


