FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050809171133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into Material Definitive Agreement and Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On August 8, 2005, CNX Gas Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "CNX Gas"), a subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. (together with its subsidiaries other than CNX Gas, "CEI" or "CONSOL Energy"), closed on the sale of approximately 24.3 million shares in a previously announced private transaction for net proceeds before expenses of approximately $365.4 million. CONSOL Energy agreed to pay expenses of the private transaction estimated at approximately six million dollars. After taking into account approximately $4.1 million of expenses paid at closing, CONSOL Energy's net from the special dividend from CNX Gas was approximately $361.3 million. As previously disclosed, CNX Gas has granted a 30 day option to purchase an additional approximately 3.6 million shares which remains outstanding and which if exercised in full would result in approximately $54.8 million in net proceeds before expenses. Net proceeds from any exercise of this option will also be paid as a special dividend to CONSOL Energy.
 
Effective as of the closing of the private transaction, CEI transferred substantially all of the assets of CEI's gas business, including all of CEI's rights to coalbed methane ("CBM") associated with approximately 4.5 billion tons of coal reserves owned or controlled by CEI in Northern Appalachia, Central Appalachia, the Illinois basin and other western basins and CEI's rights to conventional oil and gas. The assets transferred included (described as of March 31, 2005) (i) development rights to 296,000 net CBM acres in Central Appalachia (which acreage contains most of CEI's 353 million tons of proved coal reserves owned or controlled by CEI in this area, including 1,566 net producing wells and 1,697 identified additional CBM drilling sites and consists of 113,500 net proved developed CBM acres, 34,500 net proved undeveloped CBM acres and 148,000 net unproved CBM acres), (ii) joint venture interests relating to 149,820 gross conventional gas acres being explored in Central Appalachia containing 22 wells, in which 1,300 conventional drilling sites have been identified and 2,780 gross proved developed conventional acres, (iii) 407,831 net CBM acres in Northern Appalachia (which acreage contains most of the 2.6 billion tons of proved coal reserves owned or controlled by CEI in this area and in which 734 additional drilling locations have been identified and consists of 27,991 net proved developed CBM acres, 3,840 net proved undeveloped CBM acres and 376,000 net unproved CBM acres), (iv) joint venture interests in Tennessee relating to 206,364 gross conventional gas leasehold acres in which 5,134 conventional drilling sites are available and 1,520 gross proved developed conventional acres, and (v) all of CEI's rights associated with CBM in approximately 1.6 billion tons of coal reserves owned or controlled by CEI in the Illinois and other western basins.
 
CEI holds approximately 122.9 million shares, or approximately 83.5 percent (81.5 percent if the option is exercised in full), of the outstanding shares of CNX Gas common stock (before issuance of any shares under CNX Gas' 2.5 million share equity incentive plan). Nicholas J. DeIuliis, Senior Vice President  Strategic Planning of CEI, Ronald E. Smith, Executive Vice President  Gas Operations, Land Resources and Engineering Services of CEI and Gary Bench, Vice President  Tax of CEI no longer hold their positions with CEI. Messrs. DeIuliis, Smith and Bench have accepted positions with CNX Gas. Messrs. DeIuliis, Smith and Bench have been named Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director; Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer of CNX Gas, respectively. Philip W. Baxter resigned from the Board of Directors of CEI to become chairman of the board of directors of CNX Gas. On August 4, 2005 and in connection with Mr. Baxter resigning from the CEI Board of Directors and the termination of the unvested portion of his CEI options, CEI paid him $220,730. The following persons will serve on both CEI's and CNX Gas' board of directors: J. Brett Harvey, James E. Altmeyer, Sr. and Raj K. Gupta.
 
In connection with the closing of the private transaction, CEI and CNX Gas (and certain of each of their subsidiaries) also entered into various intercompany agreements, including a Master Separation Agreement, Master Cooperation & Safety Agreement, Services Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement and Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement. In addition, in connection with the closing of the private transaction CEI entered into certain amendments to the security agreements for its $750 million revolving credit facility, certain amendments to its $125 million receivables securitization facility and a supplemental indenture for its 7.875% notes due 2012. In addition, CEI has guaranteed up to approximately $53 million of the obligations of CNX Gas under a 15 year firm transportation agreement with East Tennessee Natural Gas, LLC which is to construct the 30-mile Jewel Ridge lateral pipeline for CNX Gas' gas field in Virginia.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued the press releases dated August 2 and August 9, 2005 which are attached as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated August 2, 2005.
 
Exhibit 99.2    Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated August 9, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 9, 2005
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated August 2, 2005.
 
Exhibit 99.2    Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated August 9, 2005.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH, Aug. 2 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  CNX Gas Corporation (CNX Gas), a wholly owned subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: CNX), has entered into an agreement to sell approximately 24.3 million shares in a previously announced private transaction and granted a 30 day option to purchase an additional 3.6 million shares.
 
The CNX Gas common shares are being sold to qualified institutional and accredited investors in a private transaction exempt from registration under Rule 144A, Regulation S and Regulation D. The shares have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
Following the close of the transaction, CNX Gas expects to receive approximately $365.4 million in net proceeds (approximately $420.2 million if the option is exercised) that it will use to pay a special dividend to CONSOL Energy Inc. CONSOL Energy Inc. previously disclosed that it intends to use the proceeds of the special dividend to accelerate efficiency projects in its coal segment and to make acquisitions. In addition, CONSOL Energy has agreed to pay an estimated six million dollars in expenses related to this transaction.
 
Following the close of the transaction, CONSOL Energy will hold approximately 122.9 million shares, or approximately 83.5 percent (81.5 percent if the option is exercised), of the then outstanding shares of CNX Gas common stock (before issuance of any shares under CNX Gas' 2.5 million share equity incentive plan). At the price paid in the transaction, CONSOL Energy's shares of CNX Gas would be valued at approximately $1.966 billion.
 
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the common stock of CNX Gas Corporation. Securities laws applicable to private transactions limit the extent of information that can be provided at this time.
 
CNX Gas Corporation is a wholly owned subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. and is engaged in the exploration, development and production of natural gas in the Appalachian Basin.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These
risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
PITTSBURGH, Aug 09, 2005 /PRNewswire-FirstCall via COMTEX/ -- CNX Gas Corporation (CNX Gas), a subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. (CEI) (NYSE: CNX), closed on the sale of approximately 24.3 million shares in a previously announced private transaction for net proceeds before expenses of approximately $365.4 million. As previously disclosed, CNX Gas has granted a 30-day option to purchase an additional approximately 3.6 million shares which remains outstanding.
 
The CNX Gas common shares were sold to qualified institutional and accredited investors in a private transaction exempt from registration under Rule 144A, Regulation S and Regulation D. The shares have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933 and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.
 
CONSOL Energy agreed to pay expenses of the private transaction estimated at approximately six million dollars. After taking into account approximately $4.1 million of expenses paid at closing, CONSOL Energy's net from the special dividend from CNX Gas was approximately $361.3 million. Net proceeds from any exercise of the 3.6 million share option will also be paid as a special dividend to CONSOL Energy. CONSOL Energy previously disclosed that it intends to use the proceeds of the special dividend to accelerate efficiency projects in its coal segment and to make acquisitions.
 
CONSOL Energy holds approximately 122.9 million shares, or approximately 83.5 percent (81.5 percent if the option is exercised), of the then outstanding shares of CNX Gas common stock (before issuance of any shares under CNX Gas' 2.5 million share equity incentive plan). Effective August 8, 2005, Nicholas J. DeIuliis, Senior Vice President - Strategic Planning of CEI, Ronald E. Smith, Executive Vice President - Gas Operations, Land Resources and Engineering Services of CEI and Gary Bench, Vice President - Tax of CEI no longer hold their positions with CEI and accepted positions with CNX Gas. Mr. DeIuliis, Mr. Smith and Mr. Bench have been named Chief Executive Officer, President and a Director; Chief Operating Officer; and Chief Financial Officer of CNX Gas, respectively. Philip W. Baxter resigned from the Board of Directors of CEI to become chairman of the board of directors of CNX Gas. The following persons will serve on both CEI's and CNX Gas' board of directors: J. Brett Harvey, James E. Altmeyer, Sr. and Raj K. Gupta.
 
This news release shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the common stock of CNX Gas Corporation. Securities laws applicable to private transactions limit the extent of information that can be provided at this time.
 
CNX Gas Corporation is a subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. and is engaged in the exploration, development and production of natural gas in the Appalachian Basin.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com.
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


