FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050812122442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective August 8, 2005 and in connection with the closing of the private transition, CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CEI" or the "Company") and CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas"), and certain of each of their subsidiaries, entered into various intercompany agreements. Each of the Master Separation Agreement, Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement, Services Agreement, Tax Sharing Agreement, Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement and Master Lease were dated as of August 1, 2005 and are attached as Exhibits 10.69, 10.70, 10.71, 10.72, 10.73 and 10.74 to this Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by reference. Additionally, on August 8, 2005, the Company entered into an amendment to its Collateral Trust Agreement and an amendment to its Security Agreement, Pledge Agreement, Patent, Trademark and Copyright Security Agreement and Regulated Substances Certificate and Indemnity Agreement, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.75 and 10.76 and are hereby incorporated by reference. The Company also entered into an Originator Release related to the Company's accounts receivables facility and Supplemental Indenture No. 4 related to its 7.875% Notes due 2012, copies of which are attached as Exhibits 10.77 and 10.78 to this Form 8-K and are hereby incorporated by reference. A brief description of each agreement is set forth below and such descriptions are qualified by the complete agreements attached hereto.
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
The master separation agreement contains the key provisions relating to the separation of CNX Gas's business from CEI's other businesses and sets forth certain agreements and covenants related to certain ongoing relationships between CEI and CNX Gas following that separation. Other than certain coalbed methane and conventional oil and gas rights located outside of Virginia, Pennsylvania, northern West Virginia and Tennessee, which CEI and its remaining affiliates leased to CNX Gas pursuant to a master lease, CEI and certain of its affiliates transferred to CNX Gas the assets that are used exclusively in CEI's gas operations and other assets specifically listed in the agreement, subject to some specified exclusions. All assets were transferred to CNX Gas on an "as-is-where-is" basis. In the event that both CNX Gas and CEI have rights under certain contracts, the party that signed the contract will make available the rights and benefits of that contract to the other party, but only to the extent that the contract applies to the other party, and the other party will assume and discharge the liabilities related to those rights and benefits. CNX Gas assumed all of the liabilities related to those assets and the gas operations, even if those liabilities were as a result of activities occurring prior to the effective date of the separation of the businesses and regardless of whether such liabilities were the result of negligence or misconduct on the part of CEI, subject to the following allocation of unknown liabilities, if any, asserted in writing by one or more third parties within five years of August 8, 2005: CNX Gas will be responsible for the first $10 million of aggregate unknown liabilities; CEI will be responsible for the next $40 million of aggregate unknown liabilities; and CNX Gas will be responsible for any additional unknown liabilities over $50 million. CNX Gas will also be responsible for any unknown liabilities which were not asserted in writing during the five year period. Certain excluded liabilities which may have related to gas operations are not being assumed by CNX Gas and CNX Gas is being indemnified by CEI with respect to those liabilities. CNX Gas is also obligated to indemnify CEI and its affiliates against all liabilities arising out of federal and state securities laws, including liabilities related to material untrue statements and omissions in the offering memorandum related to CNX Gas' recent private sale of common stock, any future registration statement CNX Gas files with the SEC and any future prospectus CNX Gas uses in a public offering.
 
CNX Gas has agreed that, for so long as CEI beneficially owns at least fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding CNX Gas voting stock, CNX Gas will: (i) not take any action which would limit the ability of CEI or its transferee to transfer its shares of CNX Gas common stock and (ii) not take any actions that could reasonably result in CEI being in breach of or in default under any contract or agreement, including any action that would cause a default under CEI's debt instruments.
 
Additionally, CNX Gas will not issue any additional capital stock without CEI's consent if after such issuance CEI would own less than eighty percent (80%) of CNX Gas's outstanding voting stock. CEI also has the right to purchase shares of CNX Gas capital stock in two instances. First, CEI has the right to purchase shares of CNX Gas capital stock in order to maintain a percentage ownership in CNX Gas capital stock of at least eighty percent (80%) for tax consolidation purposes. Second, CEI has the right to purchase the required number of shares of capital stock from CNX Gas so that CEI may effect a distribution of all of its CNX Gas shares to its stockholders as a tax-free spin-off.
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
The master cooperation and safety agreement contains the provisions related to the safe and economical operation of CEI's coal business and CNX Gas's gas business where joint interests exist. The parties have agreed that to the extent there is any conflict between CNX Gas's gas interests and CEI's coal interest in a joint location, CEI's coal operations shall generally prevail. CNX Gas has agreed to sign and deliver any waiver or consent necessary to allow coal mining operations of CEI in the vicinity of any property or gas rights owned by CNX Gas and CEI has agreed that CNX Gas has the right to capture gas from any well associated with CEI's property, subject to CEI's right to preclude CNX Gas from capturing gas with respect to any active mining area in order to promote safety for and productivity of CEI's coal operations. CNX Gas is obligated to coordinate its annual drilling plan with CEI's ten year mine plan.
 
CEI has the right at its expense to develop wells located within an active mining area (i.e., coal area) or within CEI's then ten year mine plan area. CNX Gas also has the right at its expense to develop wells in those active mining areas or within the ten year plan area with CEI's consent. Subject to the overriding principles stated above, CNX Gas has the sole right to capture gas in any active mining area, in any area in the ten year mine plan and in any other non-coal area from wells developed by CEI.
 
CEI will have access to CNX Gas's control systems located in coal areas for monitoring purposes. CEI can also request that CNX Gas relocate, at CEI's expense, any part of those systems to the extent it interferes with CEI's coal operations. CEI is also permitted to subside any part of a system located in an active mine area, provided that CEI reimburses CNX Gas for its out-of-pocket costs related to the subsidence.
 
CEI maintains all mining rights to use the surface within any coal area for activities associated with coal mining, including venting coal gas and drilling vertical vent holes for degasification. CEI also has the right to use any coal gas produced from coal area wells as long their use is consistent with past practices and they pay CNX Gas the applicable market price for the use of the gas.
 
As long as CEI beneficially owns 10% or more of CNX Gas's voting stock, CNX Gas will have a right of first refusal on future gas rights obtained by CEI and CEI will have a right of first refusal on any coal rights that CNX Gas acquires.
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
The tax sharing agreement governs the respective rights, responsibilities, and obligations of CEI and CNX Gas with respect to certain tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding income taxes and related tax returns of the parties. In general, CEI is responsible for the remittance of U.S. federal income taxes of the affiliated group of corporations, including CNX Gas, of which it is the common parent. CEI is responsible for the remittance of state income taxes to states in which it is required to file, or elects to file a consolidated or combined state income tax return.
 
CNX Gas is obligated to pay to CEI, each year, an amount equal to the amount of U.S. federal income tax and state income tax that it would have incurred had it filed a separate U.S. federal income tax return and separate state income tax returns in the states in which it is included in a consolidated or combined state tax return filed by CEI. CEI is responsible for, and has exclusive control over, preparing and filing any tax return with respect to the CEI affiliated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes and with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary group for state tax purposes that includes CEI or any of its subsidiaries, including making any tax elections, provided, however, that any tax election that affects only CNX Gas will be made, after CEI consults with CNX Gas, in a manner that is reasonable and fair to CNX Gas. CEI generally has exclusive authority to control tax examinations and proceedings related to any tax returns of the CEI affiliated group for U.S. federal income tax purposes and with respect to any consolidated, combined or unitary group for state tax purposes that includes CEI or any of its subsidiaries, except for matters or issues that relate solely to CNX Gas. CNX Gas also covenants to take certain actions and refrain from certain actions in order to preserve CEI's ability to distribute the CNX Gas stock it owns to its stockholders in a tax-free spin-off. The tax sharing agreement also assigns responsibilities for other administrative matters and provides for cooperation and information sharing with respect to tax matters.
 
Services Agreement
 
The services agreement governs the provision by CEI to CNX Gas of support services, such as: cash management and debt service administration; accounting and tax; investor relations; payroll and human resources administration; legal; information technology; internal audit; real estate management; and other general
administrative functions. CNX Gas will pay or reimburse CEI for any out-of-pocket payments, costs and expenses associated with these services.
 
Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement
 
The credit agreement provides that CEI will lend to CNX Gas, on a revolving basis, funds in an amount not to exceed $50 million at any one time outstanding, with interest on borrowings at a rate equal to the all-in interest rate available to CEI from outside sources for short term borrowings. The credit agreement will remain in effect until the earlier of the time when CNX Gas arranges for a third-party credit facility or one year. It may be earlier terminated by CEI if CEI or its affiliates own common stock of CNX Gas representing less than a majority of the voting power of that common stock or if CNX Gas materially breaches the credit agreement or any of the other intercompany agreements. The obligation of CEI to make loans to CNX Gas is subject to compliance with covenants contained in CEI's $750 million revolving credit facility.
 
Master Lease
 
Pursuant to the master lease, CEI (and certain of its subsidiaries) has leased to CNX Gas Company, LLC, all of CEI's (and its subsidiaries') rights to explore and drill for, operate, produce, process, transport, market and sell, oil and natural gas and coalbed methane owned, leased or otherwise controlled by it. Excluded from the lease are any oil and natural gas or coalbed methane or related asset or right that: (i) was previously conveyed, transferred or assigned by CEI to CNX Gas Company LLC, (ii) is the subject to (or arising from) an existing contract or lease as set forth in the master lease, (iii) is listed in the master separation agreement as an excluded asset or (iv) was evaluated as proved, probable and/or possible oil and gas interests in that certain reserve report received by CEI dated as of June 29, 2005. Specifically excepted from this master lease are any coal and coal mining rights and other minerals owned or leased by CEI (or its subsidiaries).
 
Amendment No. 2 to Collateral Trust Agreement
 
This Amendment was entered into between CEI, certain subsidiaries of CEI and the trustees in order to release CNX Gas Corporation and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cardinal States Gathering Company and CNX Gas Company LLC, from all obligations under the Collateral Trust Agreement dated June 30, 2004, as amended. Additionally, the shares of CNX Gas held by Consolidation Coal Company (a wholly-owned subsidiary of CEI) were pledged to the collateral trustees.
 
Amendment No. 1 to Security Agreement, Pledge Agreement, Patent, Trademark and Copyright Security Agreement and Regulated Substances Certificate and Indemnity Agreement
 
In connection with the release of CNX Gas Corporation and its two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Cardinal States Gathering Company and CNX Gas Company LLC, as guarantors under CEI's $750 million revolving credit facility, this Amendment was entered into between CEI, certain of its subsidiaries, and the trustees of the collateral trust related to these agreements in order to release CNX Gas Corporation, Cardinal States Gathering Company and CNX Gas Company LLC from all obligations under the following agreements: (i) the Security Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004, (ii) the Pledge Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004, (iii) the Patent, Trademark and Copyright Security Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004 and (iv) the Regulated Substances Certificate and Indemnity Agreement dated as of June 30, 2004.
 
Originator Release
 
On August, 8, 2005, CEI, and certain of its subsidiaries, entered into an originator release with certain banks for the purpose of removing CNX Gas Company LLC as an originator under that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of April 30, 2003 and as a sub-servicer under that certain Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of April 30, 2003. Additionally, all liens on assets of CNX Gas Company LLC were terminated under those two agreements.
CONSOL Energy Inc., Supplemental Indenture No. 4 to $250,000,000, 7.875% Notes due 2012
 
This Supplemental Indenture No. 4 provides that Cardinal States Gathering Company and CNX Gas Company LLC are released from their obligations as a guarantor under the Indenture originally dated March 7, 2002 providing for the issuance of the 7.875% Notes due in 2012 in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000. CNX Gas Corporation was not a guarantor under the Indenture.
 
 
On August 11, 2005, CNX Gas Corporation (together with its subsidiaries, "CNX Gas"), a subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc. (together with its subsidiaries other than CNX Gas, "CEI" or "CONSOL Energy"), closed on the private sale of an additional approximately 3.6 million shares of common stock for proceeds before expenses of approximately $58.4 million. The additional shares were issued pursuant to the exercise in full of the previously announced 30-day option which had been granted in connection with CNX Gas' previously announced private sale of approximately 24.3 million shares. Net proceeds from the exercise of this option were also paid as a special dividend to CONSOL Energy.
 
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 12, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.69
 
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Execution Copy
 
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
 
THIS MASTER SEPARATION AGREEMENT (the "") is made and entered into as of August 1, 2005, by and among (a) CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation () and each subsidiary of CEI which is or becomes a party to this Agreement other than CNX and its subsidiaries (CEI, together with its subsidiaries which are or become parties to this Agreement other than CNX and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as ""), and (b) CNX Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("") and each subsidiary of CNX which is or becomes a party to this Agreement (CNX together with its subsidiaries are collectively referred to as ""). Capitalized terms used and not otherwise defined in this Agreement have the meanings ascribed to such terms in Article 1 of this Agreement.
Agreement
"CEI"
CONSOL Energy
CNX
GasCo
 
 
A. CONSOL Energy has determined that it would be appropriate, desirable and in the best interests of CONSOL Energy and CONSOL Energy's stockholders to separate the Gas Operations from CONSOL Energy;
 
B. In connection with the separation of the Gas Operations from CONSOL Energy, CONSOL Energy desires to contribute or otherwise transfer certain assets and Liabilities associated with the Gas Operations, including the stock or other equity interests of CONSOL Energy's Subsidiaries dedicated to the Gas Operations set forth on Schedule 1 hereto, to GasCo (collectively, the "");
Contribution
 
C. CNX intends to offer and sell for its own account a limited number of shares of GasCo Common Stock pursuant to a private placement (the "") of such shares;
Private Placement
 
D. In connection with the Contribution and in exchange for the Gas Operations contributed by CONSOL Energy directly to GasCo, CNX intends to (i) declare a dividend to CONSOL Energy of the Private Placement proceeds, and (ii) assume the Gas Operations Liabilities;
 
E. CONSOL Energy wishes to retain the option of, after the Private Placement, distributing to holders of shares of CONSOL Energy common stock the outstanding shares of GasCo Common Stock then owned by CONSOL Energy in a manner in which no gain or loss will be recognized by CONSOL Energy (the "");
Distribution
 
F. CONSOL Energy and GasCo intend that the contribution of assets by CONSOL Energy to GasCo pursuant to Section 2.1 of this Agreement, will qualify as a transfer to a controlled corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes pursuant to which no gain or loss will be recognized by CONSOL Energy under Section 351 and related provisions of the Code, except to the extent provided in Sections 351(b) and 357 of the Code; and
 
G. The parties intend in this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements to set forth the principal arrangements between them regarding the Contribution and the Private Placement:
Master Separation Agreement
 
NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the premises and the mutual covenants and agreements contained and intending to be legally bound, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
1. Definitions
 
The following terms, as used in this Agreement, have the following meanings:
 
"" means any suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding or investigation by or before any court, governmental or other regulatory or administrative agency or commission or any arbitration tribunal asserted by a Person.
Action
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
Agreement
 
"" means each of the Contribution Agreements, the Services Agreement, the Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement, the Registration Rights Agreement, the Tax Sharing Agreement, the Intercompany Loan Agreement, and the Master Lease, including any exhibits, schedules, attachments, tables or other appendices thereto, and each agreement and other instrument contemplated herein or therein.
Ancillary Agreements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(v) of this Agreement.
Annual Financial Statements
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.2 of this Agreement.
Bad Act
 
"" means a day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which banking institutions located in New York, New York are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
Claimed Amount
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
Claim Notice
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
CONSOL Energy
 
"" means the amount, if any, of aggregate Unknown Liabilities which both (i) exceed $10 million but are less than or equal to $50 million and (ii) and are asserted in writing by third parties against GasCo and/or CONSOL Energy on or after the Effective Date but prior to the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date (the intent of this definition and the definition of GasCo Allocated Unknown Liabilities is to result in GasCo being responsible for the first $10 million of aggregate Unknown Liabilities asserted in writing during the period described in clause (ii), CONSOL Energy is responsible for the next $40 million of aggregate Unknown Liabilities asserted in writing during the period described in clause (ii), and GasCo is responsible for any excess of aggregate Unknown Liabilities asserted in writing during the period described in clause (ii) over $50 million as well as for any and all Unknown Liabilities asserted following the period described in clause (ii)).
CONSOL Energy Allocated Unknown Liabilities
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
CONSOL Energy Annual Statements
 
"" means the businesses or operations of CONSOL Energy other than the Gas Operations.
CONSOL Energy Business
 
"" means the common stock, par value $.01 per share, of CEI.
CONSOL Energy Common Stock
 
"" means that certain Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2005, by and among CONSOL Energy Inc., the Guarantors (as defined therein), the Lenders (as defined therein), PNC Bank, National Association and Citicorp North America, Inc., as Co-Administrative Agents, The Bank of Nova Scotia - New York Agency, Fleet National Bank and Union Bank of California, N.A., as Co-Syndication Agents, and PNC Capital Markets, Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. as Joint Lead Arrangers, as the same may be amended or replaced from time to time.
CONSOL Energy Credit Agreement
 
"" means all material set forth in, or incorporated by reference into, the Offering Memorandum to the extent relating exclusively to (i) CONSOL Energy or (ii) the CONSOL Energy Business, to the extent supplied to GasCo for inclusion in such documents by representatives of CONSOL Energy.
CONSOL Energy Disclosure Portions
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.1 of this Agreement.
CONSOL Energy Indemnified Parties
 
"" means the Liabilities of CONSOL Energy other than the Gas Operations Liabilities.
CONSOL Energy Liabilities
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(viii) of this Agreement.
CONSOL Energy Public Filings
 
"" means any Contract to which CONSOL Energy is a party relating in part to the Gas Operations but not included in the Gas Operations Assets.
CONSOL Energy Shared Contract
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(b)(iii) of this Agreement.
CONSOL Energy's Auditors
 
"" means any contract, agreement, lease, license, sales order, purchase order, instrument or other commitment that is binding on any Person or any part of its property under applicable law.
Contracts
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
Contribution
 
"" means the agreements by which the Gas Operations Assets are transferred to GasCo, including, without limitation, this Agreement, entered into by and between CONSOL Energy, on the one hand, and GasCo, on the other hand, pursuant to which the Contribution will be effected.
Contribution Agreements
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(d)(ii) of this Agreement.
Controlling Party
 
"" means all losses, claims, demands, damages, Liabilities, judgments, dues, penalties, assessments, fines (civil, criminal or administrative), costs, liens, forfeitures, settlements, fees or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and any other expenses reasonably incurred in connection with investigating, prosecuting or defending a claim or Action), of any nature or kind, whether or not the same would properly be reflected on a balance sheet.
Damages
 
"" means any dispute or disagreement between CONSOL Energy and GasCo as to the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement executed in connection herewith or therewith (or the performance of obligations hereunder or thereunder).
Dispute
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the Recitals to this Agreement.
Distribution
 
"" means the time immediately prior to the initial Closing Time, as such term is defined in the Purchase Agreement for CNX's sale of shares under the Purchase Agreement.
Effective Date
 
"" means any federal, state, local, foreign or international statute, ordinance, rule, regulation, code, license, permit, authorization, approval, consent, common law (including tort and environmental nuisance law), legal doctrine, order, judgment, decree, injunction, requirement or agreement with any governmental authority, now or hereafter in effect, relating to health, safety, pollution or the environment (including ambient air, surface water, groundwater, land surface or subsurface strata) or to emissions, discharges, releases or threatened releases of any substance currently or at any time hereafter listed, defined, designated or classified as hazardous, toxic, waste, radioactive or dangerous, or otherwise regulated, under any of the foregoing, or otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or handling of any such substances, including the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act and the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and comparable provisions in state, local, foreign or international law.
Environmental Law
 
"" means all Liabilities relating to, arising out of, or resulting from, any Environmental Law or Contract relating to environmental, health or safety matters (including all removal, remediation or cleanup costs, investigatory costs, response costs, natural resources damages, property damages, personal injury damages, costs of compliance with any product take back requirements or with any settlement, judgment or other determination of Liability and indemnity, contribution or similar obligations) and all costs and expenses, interest, fines, penalties or other monetary sanctions in connection therewith.
Environmental Liabilities
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time, together with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Exchange Act
 
"" means (i) Tax-related Liabilities which are specifically retained by CONSOL Energy under the Tax Sharing Agreement; (ii) employee-related Liabilities prior to the Effective Date except as reflected in the historical financial statements dated December 31, 2004 and March 31, 2005 of GasCo or of the same type as is reflected in such historical financial
Excluded Liabilities
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
statements and arising after March 31, 2005 in the ordinary course of business; and (iii) the CONSOL Energy Allocated Unknown Liabilities.
 
"" means the pending litigation matters set forth on Schedule 2.
Existing Litigation Matters
 
"" means the Annual Financial Statements and Quarterly Financial Statements collectively.
Financial Statements
 
"" means U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied.
GAAP
 
"" has the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.
GasCo
 
"" means the initial $10 million of aggregate Unknown Liabilities plus any amount by which total Unknown Liabilities exceeds $50 million as well as any Unknown Liabilities that are asserted in writing by third parties against GasCo and/or CONSOL Energy on or after the fifth anniversary of the Effective Date.
GasCo Allocated Unknown Liabilities
 
"" means all classes or series of capital stock of CNX and all options, warrants and other rights to acquire such capital stock.
GasCo Capital Stock
 
"" means the common stock of CNX.
GasCo Common Stock
 
"" means the aggregate principal amount of total liabilities (whether long-term or short-term) for borrowed money (including capitalized leases) of GasCo, as determined for purposes of its Financial Statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
GasCo Indebtedness
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.2 of this Agreement.
GasCo Indemnified Parties
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a)(viii) of this Agreement.
GasCo Public Documents
 
"" means any Contract to which GasCo is a party relating in part to the CONSOL Energy Business.
GasCo Shared Contract
 
"" means the transfer agent and registrar for the GasCo Common Stock.
GasCo Transfer Agent
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.2 of this Agreement.
GasCo Voting Stock
 
"" means the independent registered public accounting firm engaged by GasCo.
GasCo's Auditors
 
"" means (i) the gas related businesses and operations conducted by CONSOL Energy prior to the Effective Date related to the commercial exploration, development, gathering, production, and marketing and sale of oil and gas, including as described in the Offering Memorandum, and the businesses and operations conducted by GasCo
Gas Operations
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
on and after the Effective Date, but excluding operations in connection with the assets set forth in Schedule 3, and (ii) except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any terminated, divested or discontinued businesses or operations that at the time of such termination, divestiture or discontinuation related to the Gas Operations (as described in the foregoing clause (i)) as then conducted.
 
"" means:
Gas Operations Assets
 
 
 
"" means the following:
Gas Operations Liabilities
 
 
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
Indemnified Party
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(a) of this Agreement.
Indemnifying Party
 
"" means nonpublic, confidential and proprietary information, whether or not patentable or copyrightable, in written, oral, electronic or other tangible or intangible forms, stored in any medium, including studies, reports, records, books, contracts, instruments, surveys, discoveries, ideas, concepts, know-how, techniques, designs, specifications, drawings, blueprints, diagrams, models, prototypes, samples, flow charts, data, computer data, disks, diskettes, tapes, computer programs or other software, marketing plans, customer names, communications by or to attorneys (including attorney-client privileged communications), memos and other materials prepared by attorneys or under their direction (including attorney work product), and other technical, financial, employee or business information or data.
Information
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b) of this Agreement.
Intended Transferee
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.5(b) of this Agreement.
Intended Transferor
 
means that certain Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement to be entered into between CEI and CNX, as the same may be amended from time to time.
"Intercompany Loan Agreement"
 
means indebtedness, if any, for advances or borrowed funds between CONSOL Energy and GasCo as reflected on the books and records of CONSOL Energy.
"Inter-Group Indebtedness"
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
"" means the United States Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
 
"" means debts, liabilities (including Environmental Liabilities), guarantees, assurances, commitments and obligations of any nature or description, whether fixed, contingent or absolute, asserted or unasserted, matured or unmatured, liquidated or unliquidated, accrued or not accrued, known or unknown, due or to become due, whenever or however arising (including, without limitation, whether arising out of (i) any Contract or tort based on negligence or strict liability or (ii) any act or failure to act by any past or present Representative, whether or not such act or failure to act was within such Representative's authority), and whether or not the same would be required by GAAP to be reflected in financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto.
Liabilities
 
"" means that certain Master Lease attached hereto as Exhibit A.
Master Lease
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(d)(ii) of this Agreement.
Non-controlling Party
 
"" means the final offering memorandum used in connection with the Private Placement.
Offering Memorandum
 
"" means the ordinary course of the Gas Operations as conducted by CONSOL Energy prior to the Effective Date consistent with historical custom and practice during normal day-to-day operations and not requiring any special authorization of any nature.
Ordinary Course of Business
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.2 of this Agreement.
Owning Party
 
"" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a limited liability company, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated organization and a governmental entity or any department, agency, or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"" means Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Co., Inc.
Placement Agent
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3 of this Agreement.
Possessor
 
"" has the meaning set for in the recitals to this Agreement.
Private Placement
 
"" means the Purchase/Placement Agreement between CONSOL Energy, GasCo and the Placement Agent relating to the Private Placement, as amended from time to time.
Purchase Agreement
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.1(a) of this Agreement.
Quarterly Financial Statements
 
"" means the Registration Rights Agreement to be entered into between CONSOL Energy, GasCo and the Placement Agent, as such Registration Rights Agreement may be amended from time to time.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
"" means Regulation S-K of the General Rules and Regulations promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act as amended from time to time and any successor provision thereto promulgated by the SEC.
Regulation S-K
 
"" means Regulation S-X of the General Rules and Regulations promulgated by the SEC pursuant to the Securities Act as amended from time to time and any successor provision thereto promulgated by the SEC.
Regulation S-X
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, any of such Person's directors, officers, employees, agents, independent contractors, suppliers or vendors, consultants, advisors, accountants or attorneys.
Representatives
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.3 of this Agreement.
Requestor
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.4 of this Agreement.
Retention Period
 
"" means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor agency.
SEC
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time, together with the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
Securities Act
 
"" means the Services Agreement entered into by and between CONSOL Energy and GasCo effective as of the Effective Date, pursuant to which CONSOL Energy will provide certain transition services to GasCo, as such Services Agreement may be amended from time to time.
Services Agreement
 
"" and "" have the meanings set forth in the Tax Sharing Agreement.
Tax
Taxes
 
"" means that certain Tax Sharing Agreement entered into by and between CONSOL Energy and GasCo effective as of the Effective Date, as such Tax Sharing Agreement may be amended from time to time.
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
"" means the definition of "control" set forth in Section 368(c) of the Code.
Tax Control
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 7.3(d)(i) of this Agreement.
Third-Party Claim
 
means the aggregate of all Liabilities to third parties arising out of or related to Gas Operations that (i) existed prior to or on the Effective Date and (ii) were not known on the Effective Date to exist by either the chief financial officer or general counsel of CONSOL Energy.
"Unknown Liabilities"
 
2. Contribution and Assumption
 
2.1 . Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, effective as of the Effective Date, CONSOL Energy will assign, transfer and convey to GasCo and GasCo will receive and accept from CONSOL Energy the Gas Operations Assets. Such assignments, transfers and conveyances will be
Contribution of Gas Operations Assets
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
effective as of the Effective Date or at such times as provided in each respective Ancillary Agreement and will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any applicable Ancillary Agreement. CONSOL Energy represents and warrants to GasCo that the Gas Operations Assets together with the assets to be leased under the Master Lease are sufficient to conduct the Gas Operations as conducted by CONSOL Energy prior to the Effective Date.
 
2.2 . Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, on the Effective Date, GasCo will assume, and on a timely basis pay, perform, satisfy and discharge the Gas Operations Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms. GasCo will be responsible for all Gas Operations Liabilities, regardless of (a) when or where such Liabilities arose or arise, (b) whether the facts on which they are based occurred on, prior to or subsequent to the Effective Date, (c) where or against whom such Liabilities are asserted or determined, (d) whether asserted or determined on, prior to or subsequent to the Effective Date, or (e) whether arising from or alleged to arise from negligence, recklessness, violation of law, fraud, misrepresentation or otherwise (each, a ) by CONSOL Energy, GasCo or any of their respective past or present Representatives; , , that this clause 2.2(e) will not limit GasCo's right to make a claim against CONSOL Energy for Damages suffered by it to the extent that such Damages are a direct result of a Bad Act committed by CONSOL Energy subsequent to the Effective Date; , , that GasCo's right to make such a claim may otherwise be limited in any Ancillary Agreement. Such assumptions of Gas Operations Liabilities will be subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and any applicable Ancillary Agreement.
Assumption of Liabilities
"Bad Act"
provided
however
provided further
however
 
2.3 . In furtherance of the assignment, transfer and conveyance of the Gas Operations Assets and the assumption of the Gas Operations Liabilities as set forth in this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, unless otherwise provided in this Agreement or in any Ancillary Agreement, on the date hereof (to the extent not previously executed and delivered), the parties will execute and deliver, and they will cause their respective Subsidiaries and Representatives, as applicable, to execute and deliver: (a) each of the other Ancillary Agreements; (b) such bills of sale, stock powers, certificates of title, assignments of Contracts, subleases and other instruments of transfer, conveyance and assignment as, and to the extent, necessary or convenient to evidence the transfer, conveyance and assignment to GasCo of all of CONSOL Energy's right, title and interest in and to the Gas Operations Assets; and (c) such assumptions of Contracts, indemnities and other instruments of assumption as, and to the extent, necessary or convenient to evidence the valid and effective assumption of the Gas Operations Liabilities by GasCo and indemnification of CONSOL Energy by GasCo. The parties will execute and deliver the Master Lease on the date hereof.
Effective Date; Deliveries
 
2.4 . GasCo acknowledges and agrees that, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or any other instrument or agreement between the parties entered into in connection with the Contribution, (a) CONSOL Energy is not making any representations or warranties in this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement, express or implied, as to the condition, quality, merchantability or fitness of any Gas Operations Asset transferred pursuant to this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or any other agreement contemplated hereby or thereby, (b)
No Representations or Warranties
EXCEPT TO THE EXTENT EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN CERTAIN DEEDS TO BE EXECUTED IN GASCO'S FAVOR, ALL SUCH GAS OPERATIONS ASSETS WILL BE TRANSFERRED ON AN ","
AS IS
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
, and (c) GasCo will bear the economic and legal risks that any conveyance will prove to be insufficient to vest in them good and marketable title, free and clear of any security interest, pledge, lien, charge, claim or other encumbrance of any nature whatsoever.
"" BASIS (AND IN THE CASE OF ANY REAL PROPERTY OR INTEREST THEREIN TO THE EXTENT DEEMED APPROPRIATE BY CONSOL ENERGY, BY MEANS OF A QUITCLAIM OR SIMILAR FORM DEED OR CONVEYANCE)
WHERE IS
 
2.5 .
Transfers Not Effected On the Effective Date
 
(a) The parties acknowledge and agree that some of the assignments, transfers or conveyances contemplated by this Article 2 may not be effected on or before the Effective Date due to the inability of the parties to obtain necessary consents or approvals or the inability of the parties to take certain other actions necessary to effect such assignments, transfers or conveyances by the Effective Date. To the extent any assignments, transfers or conveyances contemplated by this Article 2 have not been fully effected on or before the Effective Date, CONSOL Energy and GasCo will cooperate and use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain any necessary consents or approvals or take any other actions necessary to effect such assignments, transfers or conveyances as promptly as practicable following the Effective Date; , , that subsequent to the Effective Date any such actions shall be at GasCo's expense.
provided
however
 
(b) Nothing in this Agreement will be deemed to require the transfer, assignment or conveyance of any Contract or other asset by CONSOL Energy (an "") to GasCo which is otherwise intended to be transferred to GasCo (an "") to the extent that such transfer, assignment or conveyance, to the extent that any necessary approval or consent therefor had not been obtained, would constitute a material breach of such Contract or cause forfeiture or loss of such asset; , , that even if such Contract or other asset cannot be so transferred, assigned or conveyed, such Contract or other asset will be deemed a Gas Operations Asset solely for purposes of determining whether any Liability is a Gas Operations Liability.
Intended Transferor
Intended Transferee
provided
however
 
(c) If an attempted transfer, conveyance or assignment would be ineffective or would impair an Intended Transferee's rights, title and interest under or to any such Gas Operations Asset so that the Intended Transferee would not receive all such rights, title and interest then the parties will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide to, or cause to be provided to, the Intended Transferee, to the extent permitted by law, the rights of any such Gas Operations Asset and take such other actions as may reasonably be requested by the other party in order to place the Intended Transferee, insofar as reasonably possible, in the same position as if such Gas Operations Asset had been transferred as contemplated hereby. In connection therewith, (i) the Intended Transferor will promptly pass along to the Intended Transferee when received all benefits derived by the Intended Transferor with respect to any such Gas Operations Asset, and (ii) the Intended Transferee will pay, perform and discharge on behalf of the Intended Transferor all of the Intended Transferor's obligations with respect to any such Gas Operations Asset in a timely manner and in accordance with the terms thereof. If and when such consents or approvals are obtained or such other required actions have been taken, the transfer, assignment or conveyance of the applicable Gas Operations Asset will be effected in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and any applicable Ancillary Agreement.
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
2.6 . The parties agree as follows:
Shared Contracts
 
(a) At the written request of GasCo, CONSOL Energy will, to the extent permitted by the applicable CONSOL Energy Shared Contract and applicable law, make available to GasCo the benefits and rights under the CONSOL Energy Shared Contracts (except where the benefits or rights under such CONSOL Energy Shared Contracts are specifically provided pursuant to an Ancillary Agreement) which are substantially equivalent to the benefits and rights enjoyed by CONSOL Energy under each CONSOL Energy Shared Contract for which such request is made by GasCo, to the extent such benefits relate to the Gas Operations; , , that GasCo will assume and discharge (or promptly reimburse CONSOL Energy for) the obligations and liabilities under the relevant CONSOL Energy Shared Contracts associated with the benefits and rights so made available to GasCo.
provided
however
 
(b) At the written request of CONSOL Energy, GasCo will, to the extent permitted by the applicable GasCo Shared Contract and applicable law, make available to CONSOL Energy the benefits and rights under the GasCo Shared Contracts (except where the benefits or rights under such GasCo Shared Contracts are specifically provided pursuant to an Ancillary Agreement) which are substantially equivalent to the benefits and rights enjoyed by GasCo under each GasCo Shared Contract for which such request is made by CONSOL Energy, to the extent such benefits relate to the CONSOL Energy Business; , , that CONSOL Energy will assume and discharge (or promptly reimburse GasCo for) the obligations and liabilities under the relevant GasCo Shared Contracts associated with the benefits and rights so made available to CONSOL Energy.
provided
however
 
The parties' rights and obligations pursuant to this Section 2.6 will terminate with respect to any particular CONSOL Energy Shared Contract or GasCo Shared Contract at such time that the arrangement pursuant to this Section 2.6 is no longer permitted thereunder.
 
3. Private Placement
 
3.1 . The Private Placement will be a primary offering of GasCo Common Stock, and the net proceeds of the Private Placement will be used to fund a special dividend to CONSOL Energy.
Proceeds of the Private Placement
 
3.2 . The obligations of the parties to consummate the Private Placement will be subject to such conditions as CEI will determine in its sole and absolute discretion, which conditions will be for the sole benefit of CEI, may be waived by CEI in its sole and absolute discretion, and any determination by CEI regarding the satisfaction or waiver of any of such conditions will be conclusive. Such conditions will include, without limitation, the following:
Conditions Precedent to Consummation of the Private Placement
 
(a) The actions and filings with regard to state securities and blue sky laws of the United States (and any comparable laws under any foreign jurisdictions) referred to in the Purchase Agreement will have been taken and, where applicable, have become effective or been accepted;
 
(b) CNX will have entered into the Purchase Agreement and all conditions to the obligations of CNX and the Placement Agent thereunder will have been satisfied or waived;
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
(c) CEI will be satisfied in its sole and absolute discretion that (i) it will possess Tax Control of GasCo immediately following the consummation of the Private Placement, (ii) all other matters regarding the tax-free nature of the contribution, to the extent applicable as of the time the Private Placement is consummated, be satisfied or, in CEI's sole and absolute discretion, can be anticipated to be satisfied;
 
(d) No order, injunction or decree issued by any court or agency of competent jurisdiction or other legal restraint or prohibition preventing the consummation of the Private Placement or any of the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement will be in effect;
 
(e) CEI will have determined that the terms of the Private Placement, including the timing and pricing thereof, and other material matters in connection therewith, are acceptable to CEI; and
 
(f) This Agreement will not have been terminated.
 
4. Financial and Other Covenants
 
4.1.
Financial and Other Information
 
(a). CNX agrees that, for so long as CEI is required to consolidate the results of operations and financial position of CNX (as determined in accordance with GAAP consistently applied and consistent with SEC reporting requirements):
Financial Information
 
(i). CNX and CEI will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate and actively consult with the other party in order for CNX to provide its financial information to CEI in a timely manner as it reasonably requests.
General Obligation
 
(ii). CNX will maintain, as of and after the Effective Date, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 promulgated under the Exchange Act; CNX will cause each of its principal executive and principal financial officers to sign and deliver certifications to CNX's periodic reports and will include the certifications in CNX's periodic reports, as and when required pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 and Item 601 of Regulation S-K; CNX will cause its management to evaluate CNX's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting (including any change in internal control over financial reporting) as and when required pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15; CNX will disclose in its periodic reports filed with the SEC information concerning CNX management's responsibilities for and evaluation of CNX's disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting (including, without limitation, the annual management report and attestation report of CNX's independent auditors relating to internal control over financial reporting) as and when required under Items 307 and 308 of Regulation S-K and other applicable SEC rules; and, without limiting the general application of the foregoing, CNX will maintain as of and after the Effective Date internal systems and procedures that will provide reasonable assurance that (A) the Financial Statements are reliable and timely prepared in accordance with GAAP and applicable law, (B) all transactions of GasCo are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the Financial Statements, (C) the receipts and expenditures of GasCo are authorized at the
Disclosure of Financial Controls
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
appropriate level within GasCo, and (D) unauthorized use or disposition of the assets of GasCo that could have material effect on the Financial Statements is prevented or detected in a timely manner.
 
(iii) . CNX will maintain a fiscal year that commences and ends on the same calendar days as CEI's fiscal year commences and ends, and will maintain monthly accounting periods that commence and end on the same calendar days as CEI's monthly accounting periods commence and end.
Fiscal Year
 
(iv) . Upon CNX's becoming subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, CNX will file each of its Form 10-Qs in accordance with all applicable SEC rules no later than the date on which CEI files its Form 10-Q for that fiscal quarter. Prior to the date on which CNX becomes subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and if CNX is required to deliver financial statements and/or a discussion and analysis by management of CNX's financial condition and results of operations for such fiscal period to its stockholders, CNX will send to CEI the equivalent of financial statements and/or a discussion and analysis by management of CNX's financial condition and results of operations for such fiscal period as would be required in a Form 10-Q no later than the date on which CEI files its Form 10-Q for that fiscal quarter. The Form 10-Qs or equivalent information is referred to in this Agreement as the
Quarterly Financial Statements
"Quarterly Financial Statements."
 
(v) . Upon CNX's becoming subject to the reporting requirements under the Exchange Act, CNX will file an annual report on Form 10-K in accordance with all applicable SEC rules no later than the date on which CEI files its Form 10-K for that fiscal year. Prior to the date on which CNX becomes subject to the reporting requirements of the Exchange Act and if CNX is required to deliver financial statements and/or a discussion and analysis by management of CNX's financial condition and results of operations for such fiscal year to its stockholders, CNX will send to CEI the equivalent of the financial statements and/or a discussion and analysis by management of CNX's financial condition and results of operations for such fiscal year as would be required in a Form 10- no later than the date on which CEI files its Form 10-K for that fiscal year. The Form 10-K or equivalent information is referred to in this Agreement as the
Annual Financial Statements
"Annual Financial Statements."
 
(vi) . CNX will deliver to CEI all Quarterly and Annual Financial Statements of each affiliate of CNX which is itself required to file financial statements with the SEC or otherwise make such financial statements publicly available, with such financial statements to be provided in the same manner and detail and on the same time schedule as those financial statements of CNX required to be delivered to CEI pursuant to this Section 4.1.
Affiliate Financial Statements
 
(vii) . All information filed with the SEC by CNX will be consistent in terms of substance, format and detail as that filed by CEI and otherwise consistent with CEI's policies with respect to the application of the rules and regulations of the SEC, including Regulations S-X and GAAP and practices in effect from time to time, with such changes therein as may be requested by CEI from time to time consistent with changes in such accounting principles and practices, provided that such substance, format and detail are consistent with Regulation S-X and GAAP and approved by the audit committee of CNX.
Conformance with CEI Financial Presentation
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
(viii) . CNX will deliver to CEI as soon as practicable drafts of: (x) all reports, notices and proxy and information statements to be sent or made available by CNX to its respective security holders, (y) all regular, periodic and other reports to be filed or furnished under the Exchange Act (including Reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K and Annual Reports to Shareholders), and (z) all registration statements and prospectuses to be filed by CNX with the SEC or any securities exchange pursuant to the listed company manual (or similar requirements) of such exchange (collectively, the documents identified in clauses (x), (y) and (z) are referred to in this Agreement as ); to the extent practicable CEI and CNX financial Representatives will actively consult with each other regarding these drafts prior to any anticipated filing with the SEC by CNX, with particular focus on any changes which could have an effect upon CEI's financial statements, notes thereto or other regular, periodic and other reports or disclosures that CEI may be required to make under the Exchange Act or pursuant to the listed company manual (or similar requirements) of the New York Stock Exchange (collectively, the ).
CNX Reports Generally
"GasCo Public Documents"
"CONSOL Energy Public Filings"
 
(ix) . CNX will, in accordance with the CEI planning calendar, deliver to CEI copies of all annual and other budgets and financial projections (consistent in terms of format and detail and otherwise as required by CEI) relating to CNX and its affiliates on a consolidated basis, and will provide CEI and its Representatives an opportunity to meet, on one or more occasions, with management of GasCo to discuss such budgets and projections.
Budgets and Financial Projections
 
(x) . GasCo will promptly deliver to CEI such other information and data with respect to GasCo and its affiliates and their respective business, properties, financial positions, results of operations and prospects as from time to time may be requested by CEI.
Other Information
 
(xi) . CNX and CEI will consult with each other as to the timing of their annual and quarterly earnings releases and any interim financial guidance for a current or future period and will give each other the opportunity to review the information therein relating to GasCo and to comment thereon. CNX will make reasonable efforts to issue its annual and quarterly earnings releases at the same time as CEI's releases.
Press Releases and Similar Information
 
(b) . CNX agrees that, for so long as CEI is required to consolidate CNX's results of operations and financial position (in accordance with GAAP):
Auditors and Audits; Annual Statements and Accounting
 
(i) . CNX and CEI will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate and actively consult with the other party regarding the selection of independent registered public accounting firms.
Selection of CNX Auditors
 
(ii) . CNX will make any changes in its accounting estimates or accounting principles that are requested by CEI in order for CNX's accounting practices and principles to be consistent with those of CEI, provided that such substance, format and detail are consistent with Regulation S-X and GAAP and approved by the audit committee of CNX.
Accounting Changes Requested by CEI
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
(iii) . CNX will use its commercially reasonable efforts to enable GasCo's Auditors to complete their audit such that they will date their opinion on the Annual Financial Statements on the same date that CEI's independent certified public accountants date their opinion on CEI's audited annual financial statements (the ), and to enable CEI to meet its timetable for the printing, filing and public dissemination of the CONSOL Energy Annual Statements, all in accordance with Section 4.1(a) hereof and as required by applicable law.
Audit Timing
("CONSOL Energy's Auditors")
"CONSOL Energy Annual Statements"
 
(iv) . CNX will provide to CEI all information that CEI requires to meet its schedule for the preparation, printing, filing, and public dissemination of the CONSOL Energy Annual Statements and as required by applicable law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, CNX will provide all required financial information to GasCo's Auditors in a sufficient and reasonable time and in sufficient detail to permit GasCo's Auditors to take all steps and perform all reviews necessary to provide sufficient assistance to CONSOL Energy's Auditors with respect to information to be included or contained in the CONSOL Energy Annual Statements.
Information Needed by CEI
 
(v) . CNX will authorize GasCo's Auditors to make available to CONSOL Energy's Auditors both the personnel who performed, or are performing, the annual audit of CNX and work papers related to the annual audit of CNX, in all cases within a reasonable time prior to GasCo's Auditors' opinion date, so that CONSOL Energy's Auditors are able to perform the procedures they consider necessary to take responsibility for the work of GasCo's Auditors as it relates to CONSOL Energy's Auditors' report on CEI's statements, all within sufficient time to enable CEI to meet its timetable for the printing, filing and public dissemination of the CONSOL Energy Annual Statements.
Access to CNX Auditors
 
(vi) . If CEI determines in good faith that there may be some inaccuracy in CNX's financial statements or deficiency or weakness in CNX's internal accounting controls or operations that could materially impact CEI's financial statements or otherwise could be required to be reported in CONSOL Energy Public Filings or otherwise, at CEI's request, GasCo will provide CEI's internal auditors and other Representatives with access to GasCo's books and records so that CEI may conduct audits or other examinations relating to the financial statements provided by CNX under this Agreement as well as to the internal accounting controls and operations of the CNX.
Access to Records
 
(vii) . Subject to Section 4.1(a)(viii), CNX will give CEI as much prior notice as reasonably practicable of any proposed determination of, or any significant changes in, CNX's accounting estimates or accounting principles or internal controls over financial reporting from those in effect on the Effective Date. CNX will consult with CEI and, if requested by CEI, CNX will consult with CONSOL Energy's Auditors with respect thereto. Except as required by Regulation S-X or GAAP or the audit committee of CNX, CNX will not make any such determination or changes without CEI's prior written consent if such a determination or a change would be sufficiently material to be required to be disclosed in CNX's or CEI's financial statements as filed with the SEC or otherwise publicly disclosed in CONSOL Energy Public Filings.
Notice of Changes
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
(viii) . CNX will report in reasonable detail to CEI the following events or circumstances promptly after any executive officer of CNX or any member of the CNX's Board of Directors becomes aware of such matter: (A) all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect CNX's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; (B) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in CNX's internal control over financial reporting; (C) any illegal act within the meaning of Section 10A(b) and (f) of the Exchange Act; and (D) any report of a material violation of law that an attorney representing GasCo has formally made to any officers or directors of CNX pursuant to the SEC's attorney conduct rules (17 C.F.R. Part 205).
Special Reports of Deficiencies or Violations
 
4.2 . In addition to the other covenants contained in this Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements, GasCo hereby covenants and agrees that, for so long as CONSOL Energy beneficially owns at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power of all classes of then outstanding capital stock of CNX entitled to vote generally in the election of directors
Other Covenants
("GasCo Voting Stock"):
 
(a) GasCo will not, without the prior written consent of CONSOL Energy (which CONSOL Energy may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion), take, or cause to be taken, directly or indirectly, any action, including making or failing to make any election under the law of any state, which has the effect, directly or indirectly, of restricting or limiting the ability of CONSOL Energy to freely sell, transfer, assign, pledge or otherwise dispose of shares of GasCo Common Stock or which would restrict or limit the rights of any transferee of CONSOL Energy as a holder of GasCo Common Stock. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, GasCo will not, without the prior written consent of CEI (which CEI may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion), take any action, or take any action to recommend to its stockholders any action, which would among other things, limit the legal rights of, or deny any benefit to, CONSOL Energy or of any transferee of CONSOL Energy as a CNX stockholder either (i) solely as a result of the amount of Common Stock owned by CONSOL Energy or any transferee of CONSOL Energy or (ii) in a manner not applicable to CNX stockholders generally.
 
(b) To the extent that CEI or any subsidiary of CEI is a party to any Contracts that provide that certain actions or inactions of CEI or any subsidiary of CEI may result in CEI or any subsidiary of CEI being in breach of or in default under such Contracts and CEI has advised CNX of the existence, and has furnished CNX with copies, of such Contracts (or the relevant portions thereof), GasCo will not take or fail to take, as applicable, and GasCo will not take or fail to take any actions that reasonably could result in CEI or any subsidiary of CEI being in breach of or in default under any such Contract. The parties acknowledge and agree that from time to time CEI or any subsidiary of CEI may in good faith (and not solely with the intention of imposing restrictions on GasCo pursuant to this covenant) enter into additional Contracts or amendments to existing Contracts that provide that certain actions or inactions of CEI or any subsidiary of CEI (including, for purposes of this Section 4.2(b), GasCo) may result in CONSOL Energy being in breach of or in default under such Contracts. In such event, provided CONSOL
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Energy has notified CNX of such additional Contracts or amendments to existing Contracts, GasCo will not thereafter take or fail to take, as applicable, any actions that reasonably could result in CEI or any subsidiary of CEI being in breach of or in default under any such additional Contracts or amendments to existing Contracts. CONSOL Energy acknowledges and agrees that GasCo will not be deemed in breach of this Section 4.2(b) to the extent that, prior to being notified by CEI of an additional Contract or an amendment to an existing Contract pursuant to this Section 4.2(b), GasCo already has taken or failed to take one or more actions that would otherwise constitute a breach of this Section 4.2(b) had such action(s) or inaction(s) occurred after such notification, provided that GasCo does not, after notification by CEI, take any further action or fail to take any action that contributes further to such breach or default. GasCo agrees that any Information provided to it pursuant to this Section 4.2(b) will constitute Information that is subject to GasCo's obligations under Article 5.
 
4.3 .
Options
 
(a) CNX shall grant to CONSOL Energy the option to purchase GasCo Common Stock at the following times and subject to the following conditions:
 
(i) CNX grants to CONSOL Energy, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, a continuing right (the "") to purchase from CNX, at the times set forth herein, such number of shares of GasCo Common Stock as is necessary to allow CONSOL Energy to maintain the beneficial ownership of 80% of the issued and outstanding GasCo Capital Stock on a fully-diluted basis.
Tax Consolidation Option
 
(ii) CNX hereby also grants to CONSOL Energy, on the terms and conditions set forth herein, a continuing right (the "" and, collectively with the Tax Consolidation Option, the "" or individually an "") to purchase from CNX, such number of shares of GasCo Capital Stock as is necessary to allow CONSOL Energy to effect the Distribution. The Spin-Off Option shall be exercisable at any time prior to and in conjunction with the Distribution.
Spin-Off Option
Options
Option
 
(iii) Each Option shall be assignable, in whole or in part and from time to time, by CONSOL Energy to any Affiliate of CONSOL Energy. The exercise price for the shares of GasCo Capital Stock purchased pursuant hereto shall be the Market Price (as defined below) of the GasCo Capital Stock as of the date of first delivery of notice of exercise of the Option by CONSOL Energy (or its permitted assignee hereunder) to GasCo as set forth in Section 4.3(b) hereof. For purposes of this Section 4.3, "" shall mean (i) the average of the last sales price of such shares on each of the five (5) trading days immediately preceding such date on the securities exchange or quotation system on which such stock is listed or (ii) if such shares are not traded on an exchange or quotation system such price as is determined by agreed upon procedures reasonably satisfactory to CNX and CEI.
Market Price
 
(iv) CNX shall not be required to issue any shares of GasCo Capital Stock if such issuance would violate any law, rule or regulation to which CNX is subject.
 
(b) . At least twenty (20) business days prior to the issuance of any shares of GasCo Capital Stock or the first date on which any event could occur that, in the
Notice
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
absence of a full or partial exercise of the Option, would result in a reduction of CONSOL Energy's beneficial ownership in CNX below 80% of the issued and outstanding GasCo Capital Stock of CNX on a fully-diluted basis, CNX will notify CONSOL Energy in writing (the ) of any plans it has to issue such shares and the date on which such event could first occur. The Option Notice must specify the date on which CNX intends to issue additional shares of common stock or on which such event could first occur, the number of shares CNX intends to issue or may issue and the other terms and conditions of such issuance.
"Option Notice"
 
(c) . The Tax Consolidation Option may be exercised by CONSOL Energy for a number of shares equal to or less than the number of shares that are necessary for CONSOL Energy to maintain, in the aggregate, at least 80% of the issued and outstanding shares of common stock of CNX, on a fully-diluted basis. The Tax Consolidation Option may be exercised at any time after receipt of an applicable Option Notice and prior to the applicable date of issuance of such shares by the delivery to CNX of a written notice to such effect specifying: (i) the number of shares of common stock to be purchased by CONSOL Energy; and (ii) a calculation of the exercise price for such shares.
Tax Consolidation Option Exercise and Option Payment
 
(d) .Upon any such exercise of an Option, CNX will deliver to CONSOL Energy, against payment therefor, certificates issued in the name of CONSOL Energy representing the shares of GasCo Common Stock being purchased upon such exercise. Payment for such shares shall be made by wire transfer or intrabank transfer to such account as shall be specified by CNX for the full purchase price for such shares.
Option Payment
 
(e) . Any failure by CONSOL Energy to exercise an Option, or any exercise for less than all of the shares purchasable under the Option, in connection with any particular issuance shall not affect CONSOL Energy's right to exercise an Option in connection with any subsequent issuance or in connection with a Distribution.
Effect of Failure to Exercise
 
(f) . The Tax Consolidation Option shall terminate upon the occurrence of the first issuance of GasCo Common Stock that results in the reduction of CONSOL Energy's beneficial ownership of GasCo Common Stock below 80% on a fully-diluted basis, excluding any issuance by CNX in violation of this Agreement.
Termination of Tax Consolidation Option
 
4.4 . CEI reserves its right to complete a Distribution following the consummation of the Private Placement. CEI will, in its sole and absolute discretion, determine the date of the consummation of the Distribution and all terms of the Distribution, including without limitation, the form, structure and terms of any transaction(s) and/or offering(s) to effect the Distribution and the timing of and conditions to the consummation of the Distribution. In addition, CEI may, at any time and from time to time until the completion of the Distribution, modify or change the terms of the Distribution, including, without limitation, by accelerating or delaying the timing of the consummation of all or part of the Distribution. CNX will cooperate with CEI in all respects to accomplish the Distribution and will, at CEI's direction, promptly take any and all actions necessary or desirable to effect the Distribution, including, without limitation, to the extent necessary, the registration under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act of the GasCo Capital Stock on an appropriate registration form or forms to be designated by CEI. CONSOL Energy will select any investment banker(s) and manager(s) in connection with the
Distribution
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Distribution, as well as any financial printer, solicitation and/or exchange agent and financial, legal, accounting and other advisors for CEI, , , that nothing in this Agreement will prohibit CNX from engaging (at its own expense) its own financial, legal, accounting and other advisors in connection with the Distribution.
provided
however
 
4.5 . CNX will not, without the prior written consent of CONSOL Energy (which it may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion and without regard that it has and could exercise the options described in Section 4.3), issue any shares of GasCo Capital Stock or any rights, warrants or options to acquire GasCo Capital Stock (including, without limitation, securities convertible into or exchangeable for GasCo Capital Stock), if after giving effect to such issuances and considering all of the shares of GasCo Capital Stock acquirable pursuant to such rights, warrants and options to be outstanding on the date of such issuance (whether or not then exercisable), CONSOL Energy would own less than eighty (80%) of any class of GasCo Capital Stock.
Issuance of Additional Equity
 
5. Access To Information
 
5.1 .
Restrictions on Disclosure of Information
 
(a) . Without limiting any rights or obligations under any other existing or future agreement between the parties relating to confidentiality, until and including the date which is three (3) years after the date on which CONSOL Energy first beneficially owns less than 50% of GasCo Voting Stock, each party and its Representatives will hold in strict confidence, with at least the same degree of care that applies to CONSOL Energy's Information pursuant to policies in effect as of the Effective Date, all Information concerning the other party that is either in its possession as of the Effective Date or furnished by the other party or its respective Representatives at any time pursuant to this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each party and its Representatives may disclose such Information to the extent that such party can demonstrate that such Information is or was (i) in the public domain other than by the breach of this Agreement or by breach of any other agreement between or among the parties relating to confidentiality, or (ii) lawfully acquired from a third Person on a non-confidential basis or independently developed by, or on behalf of, such party by Persons who do not have access to, or descriptions of, any such Information. Each party and its Representatives will maintain policies and procedures, and develop such further policies and procedures as will from time to time become necessary or appropriate, to ensure compliance with this Section 5.1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CONSOL Energy shall be entitled to disclose any Information concerning GasCo to third parties in connection with any proposed transaction involving CONSOL Energy's ownership interest in CNX, subject to agreement of such third parties to maintain the confidentiality of such Information.
Generally
 
(b) . GasCo acknowledges that it may have in its possession Information of third Persons that was received under confidentiality or non-disclosure agreement with such third Person while part of CONSOL Energy. GasCo and its Representatives will hold in strict confidence the Information of third Persons to which GasCo has access, in accordance with the terms of any agreements entered into prior to the Effective Date between CONSOL Energy (whether acting through, on behalf of, or in connection with, the Gas Operations) and such third Persons.
Disclosure of Third Person Information
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
5.2 . If either party or any of its Representatives becomes legally required to disclose any Information (the ) that it is otherwise obligated to hold strict confidence pursuant to Section 5.1, such party will promptly notify the Person that owns the Information (the ) and will use all commercially reasonable efforts to cooperate with the Owning Party so that the Owning Party may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and/or waive compliance with this Section 5.2. All expenses reasonably incurred by the Disclosing Party in seeking a protective order or other remedy will be borne by the Owning Party. If such protective order or other remedy is not obtained, or if the Owning Party waives compliance with this Section 5.2, the Disclosing Party will (a) disclose only that portion of the Information which its legal counsel advises it is compelled to disclose or otherwise stand liable for contempt or suffer other similar significant corporate censure or penalty, (b) use all commercially reasonable efforts to obtain reliable assurance requested by the Owning Party that confidential treatment will be accorded such Information, and (c) promptly provide the Owning Party with a copy of the Information so disclosed, in the same form and format so disclosed, together with a list of all Persons to whom such Information was disclosed.
Legally Required Disclosure of Information
"
Disclosing Party
"
"
Owning Party
"
 
5.3 . Until and including the final day of the Retention Period (as defined in Section 5.4 below), each party and its Representatives will cooperate with and afford to the other party reasonable access, upon reasonable advance written request, to all Information (other than Information which is (a) protected from disclosure by the attorney-client privilege or work product doctrine, (b) proprietary in nature, (c) the subject of a confidentiality agreement between such party and a third Person which prohibits disclosure to the other party, or (d) prohibited from disclosure under applicable law) owned by such party within such party's or its Representative's possession which is created prior to the date on which CONSOL Energy first beneficially owns less than 50% of GasCo Voting Stock and which relates to the requesting party's (the ) business, assets or liabilities, and such access is reasonably required by the Requestor (i) to comply with requirements imposed on the Requestor by any governmental authority, (ii) for use in any proceeding (except for a litigation matter between the parties or any of their respective party members), (iii) to satisfy audit, accounting, Tax or similar requirements, (iv) to obtain insurance, or (v) to comply with the Requestor's obligations under this Agreement or any Ancillary Agreement. As used in this Agreement, will mean the obligation of a party in possession of Information (the ) requested by the Requestor to exert its commercially reasonable efforts to locate all requested Information that is owned and/or possessed by Possessor or any respective party members or Representatives and make such Information reasonably available to the Requestor as more fully set forth below. The Possessor, at its own expense, will conduct a diligent search designed to identify all requested Information and will collect all such Information for inspection by the Requestor during normal business hours at the Possessor's place of business. Subject to such confidentiality and/or security obligations as the Possessor may reasonably deem necessary, the Requestor may have all requested Information duplicated at Requestor's expense. Alternatively, the Possessor may choose to deliver, at the Requestor's expense, all requested Information to the Requestor in the form requested by the Requestor. The Possessor will notify the Requestor in writing at the time of delivery if such Information is to be returned to the Possessor. In such case, the Requestor will return to the
Access to Information
"
Requestor
"
"
access
"
"
Possessor
"
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Possessor such Information when no longer needed by the Requestor. In connection with providing Information pursuant to this Section 5.3, each party hereto will, upon the request of the other party and upon reasonable advance notice, make available during normal business hours its respective employees (and those employees of its respective party members and Representatives, as applicable) to the extent that they are reasonably necessary to discuss and explain all requested Information with and to the Requestor.
 
5.4 . GasCo will adopt and comply with a record retention policy with respect to Information owned by it that is no less stringent than CONSOL Energy's record retention policy in effect as of the Effective Date or as CONSOL Energy may modify such policy during the three (3) year period subsequent to the Effective Date, provided that CONSOL Energy notifies GasCo of any such modifications. Each party will, at its sole cost and expense, preserve and retain all Information in its respective possession or control that the other party has the right to access pursuant to Section 5.3 or that it is required to preserve and retain in accordance with such record retention policy or for any longer period as may be required by (a) any government agency, (b) any litigation matter, (c) applicable law, or (d) any Ancillary Agreement (as applicable, the ). If either party wishes to dispose of any Information which it is obligated to retain under this Section 5.4 prior to the expiration of the Retention Period, then that party will first provide forty-five (45) days' prior written notice to the other party, and the other party will have the right, at its option and expense, upon prior written notice within such 45-day period, to take possession of such Information within ninety (90) days after the date of the notice provided pursuant to this Section 5.4. Written notice of intent to dispose of such Information will include a description of the Information in detail sufficient to allow the other party to reasonably assess its potential need to retain such materials.
Record Retention
"
Retention Period
"
 
5.5 . For no less than seven (7) years after the date on which CONSOL Energy first beneficially owns less than 50% of GasCo Voting Stock, each party will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available to each other, upon written request, its past and present Representatives as witnesses to provide truthful information to the extent that any such Representatives may reasonably be required (giving consideration to the business demands upon such Representatives) in connection with any legal, administrative or other proceedings in which the requesting party may from time to time be involved.
Production of Witnesses
 
5.6 . Unless otherwise provided in this Article 5, each party providing access to Information or witnesses to the other party pursuant to Sections 5.3, 5.4 or 5.5 will be entitled to receive from the receiving party, upon the presentation of invoices therefor, payment for all reasonable costs and expenses (excluding allocated compensation, salary and overhead expenses) as may be reasonably incurred in providing such Information or witnesses.
Reimbursement
 
5.7 . The rights and obligations of the parties under this Article 5 are subject to any specific limitations, qualifications or additional provisions on the sharing, exchange or confidential treatment of Information set forth in this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement.
Other Agreements Regarding Access to Information
 
5.8 . In the event GasCo enters into an agreement with a third Person to sell all or any material portion of the Gas Operations not in the
Acquisition of GasCo by another Person
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Ordinary Course of Business, together with the Information related thereto, whether pursuant to a stock or asset sale, merger or otherwise, CONSOL Energy will have the right to duplicate prior to any such disposition any Information held by GasCo that relates to either (a) the Gas Operations as conducted through the date of the disposition to such third Person to the extent, and only to the extent, that this Information relates to safety or development of CONSOL Energy's mining operations or mining properties, or (b) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement to the extent, and only to the extent, that this Information relates to safety or development of CONSOL Energy's mining operations or mining properties. GasCo covenants and agrees in connection with any such disposition (x) to provide CONSOL Energy not less than thirty (30) days' written notice prior to the consummation of such disposition, and (y) not to disclose any Information of CONSOL Energy or relating to the CONSOL Energy Business to such third Person without CONSOL Energy's express written consent which may be withheld in CONSOL Energy's sole discretion. In addition, CONSOL Energy will have the right, in its sole discretion, to require GasCo to destroy or return to CONSOL Energy all or any portion of such Information prior to such disposition. GasCo covenants and agrees that it will not sell all or any portion of the Gas Operations to any third Person unless such third Person expressly agrees in writing to be bound by all of GasCo's obligations under this Section 5.8.
 
6. Additional Covenants And Other Matters
 
6.1 . In addition to the Ancillary Agreements, the parties agree to execute, or cause to be executed by their appropriate Representatives, and deliver, as appropriate, such other agreements, instruments and documents as may be necessary or desirable in order to effect the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements. At the request of GasCo (and after the Effective Date GasCo shall pay all expenses arising with respect to its request and CONSOL Energy's compliance therewith), CONSOL Energy will execute and deliver to GasCo such other instruments of transfer, conveyance, assignment, substitution and confirmation and take such other actions as GasCo may reasonably deem necessary or desirable in order (a) to transfer, convey and assign to GasCo the Gas Operations Assets, (b) to put GasCo in actual possession and operating control thereof, and (c) to permit GasCo to exercise all rights with respect thereto. At the request of CONSOL Energy, GasCo will execute and deliver to CONSOL Energy all instruments, assumptions, novations, undertakings, substitutions or other documents and take such other action as CONSOL Energy may reasonably deem necessary or desirable in order to ensure that GasCo fully and unconditionally assumes and discharges the Gas Operations Liabilities as contemplated under this Agreement, the Ancillary Agreements or any document in connection herewith or therewith, and relieve CONSOL Energy of any of the Liabilities with respect thereto and evidence the same to third Persons.
Further Assurances
 
6.2 . Each party further agrees that it will not to take any action or fail to take any action inconsistent with its obligations under this Agreement, any Ancillary Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
Performance
 
6.3 . GasCo agrees that the Existing Litigation Matters constitute pre-existing Third Party Claims, as that term is defined below in Section 7.3(d)(i), which were initiated prior to the Effective Date and for which proper notice has been given, and GasCo hereby expressly agrees to indemnify and assumes control of such Existing Litigation
Existing Litigation Matters
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Matters pursuant to Section 7.3(d)(i) as the Indemnifying Party. The parties further agree that the Existing Litigation Matters will remain and be treated as Third Party Claims to be indemnified by GasCo after the Effective Date.
 
6.4 .
Employee Matters
 
(a) GasCo employees shall be offered the same benefit plans as CONSOL Energy employees providing that those benefits remain competitive with other employers in the gas industry. In the event that one or more benefits are identified as non-competitive, GasCo and CONSOL Energy will jointly select the new benefit package with preference given to packages that are similar in administrative structure to the CONSOL Energy package.
 
(b) Between the effective date of the Master Separation Agreement and December 31, 2005, GasCo will continue to be charged an accrual rate for benefits provided with adjustments in the rate throughout the remainder of the year as deemed necessary to meet charges incurred. Effective January 1, 2006, GasCo shall compensate CONSOL Energy for actual claims incurred, administrative fees and/or premiums charged up to an individual employee stoploss amount that will be mutually agreed upon and updated annually by the Parties for all health care benefits, ancillary benefits, defined contribution 401(k) plans, defined benefit pension plans and retiree benefits in addition to what is further defined below.
 
(c) New GasCo employees will be covered by a defined contribution retiree medical program and will not be eligible for retiree life insurance.
 
(d) CONSOL Energy will lock and freeze pension benefits and maintain the liability for those GasCo employees who are currently covered by the CONSOL Energy Retirement Plan (pension plan). GasCo will begin to accrue a liability for employees eligible for pension benefits as of the Effective Date.
 
(e) GasCo shall be responsible for any penalties and/or fines attributed directly to employees of GasCo resulting from the administration of the benefit plans for those individuals either before or after the Effective Date.
 
6.5 . GasCo agrees not to export, re-export or otherwise transfer any commodities or technology received from any member of CONSOL Energy in connection with the Contribution or otherwise, except in accordance with applicable export control regulations, including, without limitation, the applicable export control regulations of the United States.
Export Control Compliance
 
6.6 From the date hereof through the Effective Date, GasCo will conduct its operations in the Ordinary Course of Business. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, prior to the Effective Date, GasCo will not without the written consent of CEI, which consent may be withheld in CEI's sole discretion, take any action outside the Ordinary Course of Business, including, without limitation: (a) the incurrence of any capital expenditures or any Liability not previously approved by CEI prior to the Effective Date; (b) the acquisition of any businesses or other assets, by means of merger, consolidation or otherwise; (c) any action that would result in the acceleration of payment of any account payable or delay in the creation or collection of any account receivable; or (d) any loans, advances or capital contributions to, or investments in, any other Person (other than members of GasCo).
Conduct of Gas Operations between the Date Hereof and the Effective Date
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
6.7 . Subject to any additional restrictions in the Tax Sharing Agreement, during the period from the Effective Date through the date when CONSOL Energy first beneficially owns less than 50% of GasCo Voting Stock, GasCo covenants and agrees that GasCo will not, without CONSOL Energy's prior written consent (which CONSOL Energy may withhold in its sole and absolute discretion): (a) acquire any businesses or other assets, by means of merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any other Person, with an aggregate value of more than $30 million for all such acquisitions, (b) dispose of assets held by GasCo, by sale or otherwise, with an aggregate value of more than $30 million for all such dispositions, or (c) acquire any equity or debt securities of any other Person, with an aggregate value of more than $30 million for all such acquisitions.
Conduct of Gas Operations Post Effective Date
 
7. Indemnification
 
7.1 . Subject to the provisions hereof, including Section 7.4(f), GasCo will, and GasCo will cause any affiliate of GasCo that receives any Gas Operations Asset or assumes any Gas Operations Liability pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement (and each of their respective successors and assigns) to indemnify, defend and hold harmless CONSOL Energy, each of its respective past and present Representatives, and each of its respective successors and assigns (collectively, the "") from and against any and all Damages incurred or suffered by CONSOL Energy Indemnified Parties arising or resulting from the following, whether such Damages arise or accrue prior to, on or following the Effective Date:
Indemnification by GasCo and Affiliates
CONSOL Energy Indemnified Parties
 
(a) The failure of GasCo or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise properly discharge any of the Gas Operations Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms and including the GasCo Allocated Unknown Liabilities;
 
(b) Third-Party Claims arising from the Gas Operations (excluding any such Third-Party Claims which are Excluded Liabilities);
 
(c) Any breach by GasCo of this Agreement or the Purchase Agreement;
 
(d) Any Damages incurred under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any other federal or state securities law or regulation resulting from or arising out of the Private Placement, Distribution, securities offering of GasCo Capital Stock required by or permitted under the Registration Rights Agreement or any other securities offering of GasCo Capital Stock, including, without limitation, any such Damages arising out of or based upon: (i) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in the Offering Memorandum, any registration statement or in any prospectus; or (ii) the omission or alleged omission to state in the Offering Memorandum, any registration statement or prospectus, a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements made therein not misleading, other than with respect to the CONSOL Energy Disclosure Portions; and
 
(e) Any breach by GasCo of any other Ancillary Agreement (subject to any limitations on Damages or remedies set forth in such Ancillary Agreement).
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
7.2 . Subject to the provisions hereof, including Section 7.4(f), CONSOL Energy will, and CONSOL Energy will cause any affiliate of CONSOL Energy that receives any benefit in connection with this Agreement or any other Ancillary Agreement to indemnify, defend and hold harmless GasCo, each of its respective past and present Representatives, and each of its respective successors and assigns (collectively, the "") from and against any and all Damages incurred or suffered by the GasCo Indemnified Parties arising or resulting from the following:
Indemnification by CONSOL Energy
GasCo Indemnified Parties
 
(a) The failure of CONSOL Energy or any other Person to pay, perform or otherwise properly discharge any of the CONSOL Energy Liabilities in accordance with their respective terms;
 
(b) Third-Party Claims arising from the CONSOL Energy Business;
 
(c) Any breach by CONSOL Energy of this Agreement or of Section 4(II) of the Purchase Agreement other than the portions thereof in which CEI represents that the representations and warranties of CNX are true and correct and that the Preliminary Memorandum and the Final Memorandum do not contain any omission or misstatement of a material fact;
 
(d) Any breach by CONSOL Energy of any Ancillary Agreement (subject to any limitations on Damages or remedies set forth in such Ancillary Agreement);
 
(e) The Excluded Liabilities including the CONSOL Energy Allocated Unknown Liabilities; and
 
(f) Any misstatement or omission of a material fact contained in the CONSOL Energy Disclosure Portions.
 
7.3 .
Claim Procedure
 
(a) . A party that seeks indemnity under this Article 7 (an "") will give written notice (a "") to the party from whom indemnification is sought (an ""), whether the Damages sought arise from matters solely between the parties or from Third Party Claims. The Claim Notice must contain (i) a description and, if known, estimated amount (the "") of any Damages incurred or reasonably expected to be incurred by the Indemnified Party, (ii) a reasonable explanation of the basis for the Claim Notice to the extent of facts then known by the Indemnified Party, and (iii) a demand for payment of the Claimed Amount.
Claim Notice
Indemnified Party
Claim Notice
Indemnifying Party
Claimed Amount
 
(b) . Within thirty (30) days after delivery of a Claim Notice, the Indemnifying Party will deliver to the Indemnified Party a written response in which the Indemnifying Party will either: (i) agree that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive all of the Claimed Amount and, in which case, the Indemnifying Party will pay the Claimed Amount in accordance with a payment and distribution method reasonably acceptable to the Indemnified Party; or (ii) dispute that the Indemnified Party is entitled to receive all or any portion of the Claimed Amount, in which case, the parties will resort to the dispute resolution procedures set forth in Schedule A.
Response to Claim Notice
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
(c) . In the event that the Indemnifying Party disputes the Claimed Amount, as soon as practicable but in no event later than ten (10) days after the receipt of the notice referenced in Section 7.3(a) hereof, the parties will begin the process to resolve the matter in accordance with the dispute resolution provisions of Schedule A. Upon ultimate resolution thereof, the parties will take such actions as are reasonably necessary to comply with such agreement or instructions.
Contested Claims
 
(d) .
Third Party Claims
 
(i) In the event that the Indemnified Party receives notice or otherwise learns of the assertion of any Damages by a Person who is not CONSOL Energy or GasCo (collectively, a "") with respect to which the Indemnifying Party may be obligated to provide indemnification under this Article 7, the Indemnified Party will give written notification to the Indemnifying Party of the Third-Party Claim. Such notification will be given within twenty (20) days after receipt by the Indemnified Party of notice of such Third-Party Claim, will be accompanied by reasonable supporting documentation submitted by such third party (to the extent then in the possession of the Indemnified Party) and will describe in reasonable detail (to the extent known by the Indemnified Party) the facts constituting the basis for such Third-Party Claim and the amount of the claimed Damages. Within a reasonable time after delivery of such notification, the Indemnifying Party may, upon written notice thereof to the Indemnified Party, assume control of the defense of such Third-Party Claim with counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnified Party. During any period in which the Indemnifying Party has not so assumed control of such defense, the Indemnified Party will control such defense. The reasonable fees and expenses incurred in connection with such defense will be considered "" for purposes of indemnification under this Agreement.
Third-Party Claim
Damages
 
(ii) The party not controlling such defense (the "") may participate therein at its own expense; , that if the Indemnifying Party assumes control of such defense and the Indemnified Party concludes, upon the written opinion of counsel, that the Indemnifying Party and the Indemnified Party have conflicting interests or different defenses available with respect to such Third-Party Claim, the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel to the Indemnified Party will be considered "" for purposes of indemnification under this Agreement. The party controlling such defense (the "") will keep the Non-controlling Party reasonably advised of the status of such Third-Party Claim and the defense thereof and will consider in good faith recommendations made by the Non-controlling Party with respect thereto. The Non-controlling Party will furnish the Controlling Party with such Information as it may have with respect to such Third-Party Claim (including copies of any summons, complaint or other pleading which may have been served on such party and any written claim, demand, invoice, billing or other document evidencing or asserting the same) and will otherwise cooperate with and assist the Controlling Party in the defense of such Third-Party Claim.
Non-controlling Party
provided
however,
Damages
Controlling Party
 
(iii) The Indemnifying Party will not agree to any settlement of, or the entry of any judgment arising from, any such Third-Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnified Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; , that the consent of the Indemnified Party will not be required if (A) the Indemnifying Party agrees in writing to pay any amounts payable pursuant to such settlement or judgment, and (B) such
provided
however,
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
settlement or judgment includes a full, complete and unconditional release of the Indemnified Party from any further Liabilities regarding the asserted claims or any further Liabilities resulting from such Third-Party Claim. The Indemnified Party will not agree to any settlement of, or the entry of any judgment arising from, any such Third-Party Claim without the prior written consent of the Indemnifying Party, which consent will not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
 
7.4 .
Survival; Limitations
 
(a) All covenants and agreements of the parties contained in this Agreement will survive each of the Contribution and the Private Placement. The rights and obligations of CONSOL Energy, GasCo and each of their respective Indemnified Parties under this Agreement will survive the sale, assignment or other transfer by any party of any assets or Liabilities.
 
(b) The amount of any Damages for which indemnification is provided under this Agreement will be net of any amounts actually recovered by the Indemnified Party from any third Person (including, without limitation, amounts actually recovered under insurance policies) with respect to such Damages. Any Indemnifying Party hereunder will be subrogated to the rights of the Indemnified Party upon payment of the amount of the relevant indemnifiable Damages. An insurer who would otherwise be obligated to pay any claim will not be relieved of the responsibility with respect thereto or, solely by virtue of the indemnification provision hereof, have any subrogation rights with respect thereto. If any Indemnified Party recovers an amount from a third Person in respect of Damages for which indemnification is provided in this Agreement after the full amount of such indemnifiable Damages has been paid by an Indemnifying Party or after an Indemnifying Party has made a partial payment of such indemnifiable Damages and the amount received from the third Person exceeds the remaining unpaid balance of such indemnifiable Damages, then the Indemnified Party will promptly remit to the Indemnifying Party the excess (if any) of (X) the sum of the amount theretofore paid by such Indemnifying Party in respect of such indemnifiable Damages plus the amount received from the third Person in respect thereof, less (Y) the full amount of such indemnifiable Damages.
 
(c) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article 7, in the event that GasCo is an Indemnifying Party, the initial presumption will be that there is no insurance coverage for any such Damages, and the Indemnifying Party will, upon request by CONSOL Energy, fully indemnify, defend and hold harmless the Indemnified Party from and against any and all such Damages. Once the Indemnifying Party has discharged this obligation to the Indemnified Party, the Indemnifying Party may request that the Indemnified Party pursue insurance coverage from one or more insurers in connection with such Damages. If requested, the Indemnified Party will pursue insurance coverage, including, if necessary, the filing of coverage litigation, all of which will be at the Indemnifying Party's sole cost and expense. The Indemnifying Party will pay directly or promptly reimburse the Indemnified Party for all such costs and expenses, as directed by the Indemnified Party. The net proceeds of any insurance recovery (after deducting any costs and expenses that have not yet been paid or reimbursed by the Indemnifying Party) will be paid to the Indemnifying Party. At all times, the Indemnifying Party will cooperate with the Indemnified Party's insurers and/or with the Indemnified Party in the pursuit of insurance coverage, as and when reasonably requested to do so by the Indemnified Party. It is not the intent of this Section 7.4(c) to absolve the Indemnifying Party of any responsibility to the Indemnified Party for those Damages in connection with which the
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
Indemnified Party actually secures insurance coverage, but to allocate the costs of pursuing such coverage via litigation (if necessary) to the Indemnifying Party and to provide the Indemnified Party with a full, interim indemnity from the Indemnifying Party until such time as the extent of insurance coverage is determined and is obtained.Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 7.4(c), if the Indemnified Party in its sole discretion determines that it is necessary to do so, the Indemnified Party may pursue insurance coverage for the benefit of the Indemnifying Party before the Indemnifying Party has fully discharged its obligations to the Indemnified Party under this Agreement. In such event, the Indemnified Party may unilaterally take any steps it determines are necessary to preserve such insurance coverage, including, by way of example and not by way of limitation, tendering the defense of any claim or suit to an insurer or insurers of the Indemnified Party if the Indemnified Party concludes that such action may be required by the relevant insurance policy or policies. Any such actions by the Indemnified Party will not relieve Indemnifying Party of any of its obligations to the Indemnified Party under this Agreement, including the Indemnifying Party's obligation to pay directly or reimburse the Indemnified Party for costs and expenses.
 
(d) Any indemnification payment made under this Agreement will be characterized for Tax purposes as a contribution or distribution or payment of an assumed or retained liability, as applicable.
 
(e) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 7.1 or Section 7.2, indemnification with respect to Taxes shall be governed exclusively by the Tax Sharing Agreement. To the extent indemnification is not provided in an Ancillary Agreement, the terms of this Agreement shall apply to and govern such Ancillary Agreement.
 
8. Miscellaneous
 
8.1 . GasCo hereby waives compliance by CONSOL Energy with the provisions of any and all laws relating to bulk transfers in connection with the Contribution.
Bulk Transfer Laws
 
8.2 . The terms set forth on Schedule A attached hereto are incorporated by reference and shall apply to this Agreement and to each Ancillary Agreement including each of the exhibits and schedules hereto and thereto) even if Schedule A is not attached to such Ancillary Agreement unless contrary provisions are explicitly contained therein, and excluding the Tax Sharing Agreement to which Schedule A shall not apply.
Incorporation of Miscellaneous Terms
(
 
8.3 . This Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective Date by and in the sole discretion of CONSOL Energy without the approval of GasCo in which case neither party will have any liability of any kind to the other party. This Agreement shall terminate on the date that CONSOL Energy no longer owns at least fifty percent (50%) of GasCo Voting Stock, except that Articles 5 of this Agreement (with the exception of Sections 5.5 and 5.8) shall survive for an additional period of three (3) years from the date of termination, and except that Article 1, sections 2.5, 2.6, 5.5, 5.8, 6.1, 6.2, and 6.3, Article 7 and Article 8 of this Agreement shall survive indefinitely.
Termination
 
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by a duly authorized officer on the date first set forth above.
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
 
Each of the undersigned subsidiaries of , intending to be legally bound, hereby joins and agrees to be bound by and assumes all of the obligations under the terms of this Master Separation Agreement as though such subsidiary was for "CONSOL Energy Inc."
CONSOL Energy Inc.
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
 
 
Master Separation Agreement
 
 
Each of the undersigned subsidiaries of , intending to be legally bound, hereby joins and agrees to be bound by and assumes all of the obligations under the terms of this Master Separation Agreement as though such
CNX Gas Corporation
subsidiary was for "CNX Gas Corporation."
 
 
The term "Agreement" shall refer to the agreement to which this Schedule A is attached. Other capitalized terms used in this Schedule and not defined in this Schedule, shall (i) have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Separation Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005, and (ii) if not defined in the Master Separation Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005. To the extent that there is any conflict between any provision of this Schedule and any provision set forth in the body of this Agreement, the provision set forth in the body of this Agreement shall control.
 
. The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
A.
Governing Law
 
. Except as it relates to any committee-based dispute resolution and the arbitration and/or mediation provisions set forth herein (or therein with regard to documents relating to this Agreement), the parties hereby expressly and irrevocably (a) agree that any suit, action, proceeding or dispute arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement (the "Litigation") or any documents relating hereto shall be brought in and only in the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, (b) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the Litigation, (c) waive any claim or defense of lack of personal jurisdiction and of inconvenient forum or venue, (d) consent that any process or notice of motion or other application to the court or judge thereof, may be served outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by registered mail, by personal service, or by any other manner prescribed by law, and (e) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
B.
Jurisdiction and Forum Selection
 
. Each party giving any notice (a "Notice") required or permitted under this Agreement will give the Notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Schedule: (a) by telephone; or (b) in writing (which includes means of electronic transmission (i.e., "e-mail") or facsimile transmission). Any Notice shall be effective: (1) in the case of hand-delivery, when delivered; (2) if given by mail, four days after such Notice is deposited with the United States Postal Service, with first-class postage prepaid, return receipt requested; (3) in the case of a telephonic Notice, when a party is contacted by telephone, if delivery of such telephonic Notice is confirmed no later than the next day on which the party receiving the notice is open for business by hand delivery, a facsimile or electronic transmission, or overnight courier delivery of a confirmatory notice (received at or before noon on such next business day); (4) in the case of a facsimile transmission, when sent to the applicable
C.
Notices
party's facsimile machine's telephone number if the party sending such Notice receives confirmation of the delivery thereof from its own facsimile machine; (5) in the case of electronic transmission, when actually received; and (6) if given by any other means (including by overnight courier), when actually received. Until further notice, as provided above, addresses for Notices shall be:
 
If to CONSOL Energy
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (412) 831-4930
E-mail: JerryRichey@consolenergy.com
 
If to GasCo:
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile: (412) 831-4412
E-mail: NickDeIuliis@cnxgas.com
 
. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of CEI and CNX, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, CEI may assign this Agreement in connection with (a) a merger transaction in which CEI is not the surviving entity or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
D.
Binding Effect and Assignment
 
. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.
E.
Severability
 
. This Agreement, together with the other Ancillary Agreements and each of the exhibits and schedules appended hereto and thereto, constitutes the final agreement between the parties, and is the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement on the matters contained herein and therein. In the event of any reorganization, insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding (including any proceeding under 11 U.S.C.  101, et. seq. or any successor thereto) of a party, such party may not assume (pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  365 or any successor provision thereto) this Agreement unless such party also assumes all of the other Ancillary Agreements. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and therein are superseded by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, as applicable.
F.
Entire Agreement
. The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or e-mail transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
G.
Counterparts
 
. CNX will be responsible for the payment of the discount and placement fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the one percent financial advisory fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement and for all other expenses of the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the payment of all costs, fees and expenses relating to the Distribution.
H.
Certain Expenses
 
. The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of the parties that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
I.
Amendment
 
. No course of dealing and no delay or failure of any party in exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege under this Agreement shall affect any other or future exercise thereof or operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties under this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. Any waiver, permission, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing.
J.
Waiver
 
. Each of the parties represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and (d) this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
K.
Authority
 
.
L.
Construction of Agreement
 
(a) Any reference in this Agreement to the singular includes the plural where appropriate. Any reference in this Agreement to the masculine, feminine or neuter
gender includes the other genders where appropriate. For purposes of this Agreement, after the Effective Date the Gas Operations, as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement, will be deemed to be the business of GasCo.
 
(b) Any captions, titles and headings, and any table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
 
(c) Language used in this Agreement is and shall be deemed language mutually chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party.
 
(d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and does not, and is not intended to, confer any rights or remedies in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of CONSOL Energy or GasCo) other than the parties signing this Agreement.
 
(e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
 
(f) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
 
(g) Unless otherwise expressly specified, all references in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means United States Dollars.
 
. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, to the extent it has any interest in any oil and/or gas mineral rights and to the extent not prohibited by any obligation binding at the time of formation or acquisition, each Subsidiary of CEI and CNX formed or acquired after the date of this Agreement shall promptly join in this Agreement (and all related documents, agreements and instruments as necessary or proper to effectuate the intent of this Agreement). In no event shall such joinder be later than 30 days following (i) if such Subsidiary is newly formed, the date of the filing of such Subsidiary's articles of incorporation if the Subsidiary is a corporation, the date of the filing of its certificate of limited partnership if it is a limited partnership or the date of its organization if it is an entity other than a limited partnership or corporation, or (ii) if such Subsidiary is an existing Person newly acquired, the date of the closing of the transaction constituting such acquisition.
M.
Joinder of Subsidiaries
 
. A bi-partisan committee (the "Committee") is hereby established to resolve Disputes. In all circumstances, the Committee shall act in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
N.
Dispute Resolution
 
(a) Membership of the Committee.
The Committee shall be composed of eight (8) members. Four (4) shall be appointed by CEI and four (4) shall be appointed by CNX. Committee members need not be employees of CONSOL Energy or GasCo. While not required, it is recommended that Committee members should have expertise in the following areas: safety, land, engineering and law. CONSOL Energy as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CEI as its voting representative (the ""). GasCo as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CNX (provided that so long as CNX remains a Subsidiary of CEI, a majority of the independent members of CNX's Board of Directors must have approved this designated Committee member) as its voting representative (the ""). Each of CEI and CNX may appoint alternate members, including one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CEI and one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CNX, who may act without notice to the other Parties when regular members are not available. Each of CEI and CNX shall have the right to change its members, including the CEI Rep and the GasCo Rep, or alternates at any time by notifying the other Parties in writing of such change. One of CEI's members shall be the first chairman of the Committee for a period of two (2) years commencing on the date of this Agreement, after which the chairmanship shall alternate between CEI and CNX annually. All Disputes coming before the Committee shall be decided by a unanimous vote.
CEI Rep
CNX Rep
 
(b) Committee Authority.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve any Dispute.
 
(c) Committee Meetings and Procedures
 
The Committee shall meet as needed to resolve Disputes. Either CEI or CNX may call a meeting of the Committee by giving not less than ten (10) days notice in writing to the other Party specifying the matters to be considered. Meetings shall be held in such locations as the CEI Rep and GasCo Rep shall agree. In the event that the CEI Rep and CNX Rep cannot agree on a meeting location, the location shall be at CEI's principal executive offices. A written record of each meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the Committee chairman with copies distributed to each of CEI and CNX as soon as possible after the meeting.
 
(d) Actions Without a Meeting.
 
Any Dispute subject to Committee jurisdiction may be submitted in writing, or by telephone confirmed in writing, to the Committee for consideration and vote without holding a meeting. For any Dispute so submitted, each of the CEI Rep and the CNX Rep shall vote by giving written notice, or by telephone confirmed in writing, of its vote not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice of such Dispute. Failure to respond shall be deemed a negative vote on such matter.
(e) Dispute Resolution.
 
Any Dispute must first be submitted to the Committee for resolution before any party may invoke mediation, arbitration or Litigation of the Dispute.
 
(f) Mediation
 
In the event that the Committee is unable to resolve a Dispute within 30 days of submission to it, CONSOL Energy and GasCo agree first to try in good faith to settle the Dispute by mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Mediation Rules before resorting to arbitration as set forth below; , , that any such Dispute shall be submitted to arbitration as set forth below if such Dispute is not settled within 60 days of the date on which the Dispute was first subject to mediation proceedings. Nothing in this section will prevent either CONSOL Energy or GasCo from commencing Litigation seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay could result in irreparable injury to either CONSOL Energy or GasCo. In the event that such Litigation seeking injunction or similar relief is initiated (the "Litigation Action"), mediation as set forth in this section shall nevertheless proceed concurrently with the Litigation Action. The Litigation Action shall be limited to seeking preliminary relief. Any adjudication of the merits shall be pursuant to the arbitration clause of this section.
provided
however
 
(g) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, CONSOL Energy and GasCo are the only parties entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement.
 
(h) Arbitration.
 
Any Dispute not settled by the Committee or by mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including the Emergency Interim Relief Procedures, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Within 15 days after the commencement of arbitration, CONSOL Energy and the GasCo shall each select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within 10 days of their appointment; , , that such third arbitrator shall (a) be independent of both parties and (b) have knowledge of mining operations and Gas production. All arbitrators shall be neutral arbitrators. If the two arbitrators selected are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the American Arbitration Association. The place of arbitration shall be Pittsburgh, PA. The award of the arbitrators shall be final and not subject to appeal.
provided
however
 
O. Consequential Damages.
 
UNLESS EXPRESSLY AND EXPLICITLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO THIS SECTION BEING
INAPPLICABLE, IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES (COLLECTIVELY, ), HOWEVER CAUSED BASED UPON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY; , , THAT TO THE EXTENT AN INDEMNIFIED PARTY IS REQUIRED TO PAY ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH SUCH INDEMNIFIED PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH A THIRD PARTY CLAIM, THE AMOUNT OF SUCH DAMAGES PAID BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY ON SUCH THIRD PARTY CLAIM WILL CONSTITUTE DIRECT DAMAGES AND SHALL NOT BE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 0.
"CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES"
PROVIDED
HOWEVER

Exhibit 10.70
 
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This MASTER COOPERATION AND SAFETY AGREEMENT (this "") dated as of August 1, 2005 (the ) is by and among (a) CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15241("") and each CEI Subsidiary (as defined below) (together with CEI, collectively, the ""), and (b) CNX Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation, with its principal place of business at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, PA 15241 ("") and each CNX Subsidiary (as defined below) (together with CNX, collectively, the ""). Capitalized terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed to them in Section 1 [Definitions; Construction; Accounting Principles] unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
Agreement
"Effective Date"
CEI
Coal Parties
CNX
Gas Parties
 
Recitals
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Now therefore, for and in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the Coal Parties and the Gas Parties agree as follows:
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
1. Definitions; Construction; Accounting Principles
 
1.1 Definitions
 
In addition to the words and terms defined elsewhere in this Agreement, the following words and terms shall have the following meanings, respectively, unless the context hereof clearly requires otherwise:
 
"" as to any Person shall mean any other Person (i) which directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with such Person, (ii) which beneficially owns or holds 10% or more of any class of the voting or other equity interests of such Person, or (iii) 10% or more of any class of voting interests or other equity interests of which is beneficially owned or held, directly or indirectly, by such Person. Control, as used in this definition, shall mean the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise, including the power to elect a majority of the directors or trustees of a corporation or trust, as the case may be.
Affiliate
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Agreement
 
"" shall mean a plan, prepared by the Gas Parties prior to September 1 of each year in consultation with the Coal Parties showing (a) the general area of drilling and the number of Wells proposed to be drilled in the next calendar year by each of the Gas Parties and the Coal Parties and (b) the approximate location of all Systems proposed to be installed by the Gas Parties; , , that an Annual Drilling Plan need not address any Well or System to be located in any area that is not reasonably likely to ever become a Coal Area.
Annual Drilling Plan
provided
however
 
"" shall mean any day on which each Coal Party and each Gas Party is open for business in the ordinary course of affairs.
Business Day
 
"" shall mean the Capital Costs of any Well covered by an Annual Drilling Plan or requested by any Coal Party outside of an Annual Drilling Plan, (a) including, without limitation, (i) costs of bonding, permitting, leasing, surface agreements and rights of way, easements, site preparation, drilling (both tangible and intangible costs), completing, recompleting, stimulating, equipping, constructing or expanding a System to connect to a Well, connecting a Well to a System, compression, gas treatment facilities and (ii) costs of legal, regulatory and environmental compliance and all fees associated therewith, including attorneys' fees, (b) but expressly excluding any credits or adjustments in respect of taxes or other positive amounts.
Capital Costs of Development
 
"" shall mean any expenditure which is required to be capitalized under generally accepted accounting principles as are in effect from time to time and applied on a consistent basis both as to classification of items and amounts; with respect to Gas accounting, all of the foregoing shall be applied on a "successful efforts" basis (as defined according to generally accepted accounting principles).
Capital Costs
 
"" shall mean to collect, treat (if necessary), process (if necessary), transport, store (if necessary), market and sell Gas that is available from any Well.
Capture
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.7.1.
CEI Contact
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
CEI
 
"" shall mean each party to this Agreement that is designated as a "CEI Subsidiary" on the signature page hereof and each other Person that joins this Agreement as a CEI Subsidiary after the Effective Date pursuant to other than CNX or any CNX Subsidiary.
CEI Subsidiary
Schedule A
 
"" shall mean any and all claims, demands, liabilities, damages, taxes, penalties, interest, judgments, losses, costs, charges and expenses (including reasonable out-of-pocket fees, including attorneys' fees) arising out of or as a consequence of, whether direct or indirect, a given transaction or occurrence.
Claim
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
CNX
 
shall mean each party to this Agreement that is designated as a "CNX Subsidiary" on the signature page hereof and each other Person that joins this Agreement as a CNX Subsidiary after the date hereof pursuant to .
"CNX Subsidiary"
Schedule A
 
"" shall mean any area that is either a Mine Area or a Coal Plan Area.
Coal
Area
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to Wells not owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date, any Well that, when originally Spudded or acquired (whichever is later) by any Coal Party or Gas Party, is located in a Coal Area, or (b) with respect to Wells owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date (i) in the event that such Party is in fact either a Coal Party or a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Coal Area on the Effective Date, or (ii) in the event that such Party is neither a Coal Party nor a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Coal Area on the date on which such Party first becomes a Coal Party or a Gas Party.
Coal Area Well
 
"" shall mean occluded methane gas and all associated natural gas and other hydrocarbons of whatever quality or quantity produced or emitted from coalbeds or coal formations and seams and any related, associated or adjacent rock material or strata. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Coal Gas" shall expressly include all substances commonly known as "coalbed methane", "coal mine methane" and "gob gas".
Coal Gas
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Coal Parties
 
"" shall mean a valid and active coal mining permit duly filed with the applicable Official Body by any Coal Party or its predecessor in interest.
Coal Permit
 
"" Area at any point in time shall mean any area that is both (i) (a) outside a Mine Area, and (b) within the Ten Year Mine Plan in effect at that point in time and (ii) owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the Coal Parties as of the Effective Date or acquired by the Coal Parties at any time thereafter while CNX is an Affiliate of CEI.
Coal Plan
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Committee
Schedule A
 
"" shall mean all liquid or gaseous hydrocarbons (including condensate and other substances produced therewith) other than Coal Gas. For the avoidance of doubt, the term "Conventional O & G" shall expressly include all substances commonly known as "conventional oil and gas".
Conventional O & G
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall mean a well drilled and permitted for the purpose of producing Conventional O & G and not for the purpose of producing Coal Gas.
Conventional Well
 
"" shall mean Gas Rights held or otherwise controlled (by lease or other binding legal arrangement) by any Person as of the date of this Agreement, including, without limitation, by way of any unrecorded document or instrument; for the avoidance of doubt and in no way limiting the foregoing, the term "Current Gas Rights" shall expressly include those certain beneficial Gas Rights more fully described on attached hereto and made a part hereof, but shall exclude any option or other right to acquire Wells and related Gas owned by third parties.
Current Gas Rights
Schedule 1(CGR)
 
"" shall mean any portion of any System owned, leased or otherwise controlled by any Gas Party (other than a Gas Party that joined this Agreement after the Effective Date) as of the Effective Date.
Current System
 
"" shall mean, with respect to any Well, all development activities relating thereto, including, without limitation, bonding, permitting, leasing, surface agreements and rights of way, easements, site preparation, drilling, completing, recompleting, stimulating or equipping.
Development
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Preamble.
Effective Date
 
"" shall mean an event which occurs when, as a result of a final order or decree from any Official Body, a determination is made that the title to any Coal Gas within a Project Area is not held by any Coal Party or any Gas Party and that, notwithstanding regulatory action, such as forced pooling, the Coal Parties and the Gas Parties do not have vested rights to develop Coal Gas, and instead said rights are vested in third parties.
Failure of Title
 
"" shall mean a vertical Well drilled in advance of mining and producing from zones artificially fractured or stimulated and which is capable of producing Coal Gas.
Frac Well
 
"" shall mean Gas Rights acquired or otherwise first controlled (by lease or other binding legal arrangement) by any Person after the date of this Agreement including, without limitation, by way of any unrecorded document or instrument.
Future Gas Rights
 
"" shall mean any portion of any System that is not a Current System.
Future System
 
"" shall mean Conventional O & G and Coal Gas (but expressly excluding any Conventional O & G and Coal Gas that, prior to Capture, is located outside of the continental United States of America).
Gas
 
"" shall mean any Gas Unit, Well, Well site, and all associated assets, including, without limitation, Gas Reserves and Systems.
Gas Asset
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the preamble.
Gas Parties
 
"" shall mean proved developed oil and gas reserves and proved undeveloped oil and gas reserves as defined by SEC Regulation S-X, Rule 4-10(a) as in effect on the Effective Date.
Gas Reserves
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall mean any Person's legal or equitable right, title and interest in any Gas and any Gas Asset, whether by deed, lease or otherwise, together with such Person's right to Capture such Gas, including, without limitation, surface rights of way and access to information concerning Gas.
Gas Rights
 
"" shall mean a "drilling unit," as that term in commonly used in the Gas business, (a) established or prescribed by field rules or other regulatory order or (b) otherwise designated any Gas Party.
Gas Unit
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 2.7.1.
GasCo Contact
 
"" shall mean the de-stressed zone associated with any full seam extraction of coal that extends above and below the mined out coal seam, and may be sealed or unsealed.
Gob
 
"" shall mean (a) a Well drilled in advance of mining or after mining for the purpose of extracting Gas from the Gob or (b) a Frac Well that is recompleted for the purpose of extracting Gas from the Gob.
Gob Well
 
"" shall mean a hole drilled from within the mine horizontally into the coal seam to be mined, or sloping into adjacent strata, for the purpose of degasification in advance of mining for mine safety purposes.
Horizontal Hole
 
"" means liabilities, losses, claims, demands, actions, suits, damages, judgments, assessments, interest, penalties, fines, amounts paid in settlement, reasonable attorneys' fees and costs and expenses, including court costs, but excluding any incidental, special, punitive, exemplary or consequential damages, such as lost profits, loss of revenue, loss of use or diminution in value of property.
Loss(es)
 
"" shall mean any master control system for operation of Wells.
Master Control System
 
"" shall mean that certain Master Separation Agreement entered into on or about the date hereof among the Parties, as amended from time to time.
Master Separation Agreement
 
"" shall mean any area that is both (i) subject to active coal mining operations by any Coal Party, including, without limitation, any developed coal panel and any Gob other than Gob located in a Sealed Gob Area, and (ii) owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the Coal Parties as of the Effective Date or acquired by the Coal Parties at any time thereafter while CNX is an Affiliate of CEI.
Mine Area
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to Wells not owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date, any Well that, when originally Spudded or acquired (whichever is later) by any Coal Party or Gas Party, is located in a Mine Area, or (b) with respect to Wells owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date, (i) in the event that such Party is in fact either a Coal Party or a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Mine Area on the Effective Date, or (ii) in the event that such Party is neither a Coal Party nor a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Mine Area on the date on which such Party first becomes a Coal Party or a Gas Party.
Mine Area Well
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall mean costs incurred to obtain access to PDPR, including, without limitation, the costs of (a) providing facilities for extracting and on-site treatment, (b) gathering lines (from the wellhead to the collection point, not to exceed 2500 feet in length), (c) gaining access to and preparing well locations for drilling (including surveying well locations for the purpose of determining specific development drilling sites, clearing ground, draining, road building, and relocating public roads, gas lines, and power lines, to the extent necessary in developing any PDPR), (d) drilling and equipping development wells, exploratory wells, and service wells (including the costs of platforms and of well equipment such as casing, tubing, pumping equipment, and the wellhead assembly), (e) to the extent that such items cannot be reused, acquiring, constructing, and installing production facilities such as lease flow lines, separators, treaters, heaters, manifolds, measuring devices, and production storage tanks, natural gas cycling and processing plants, and central utility and waste disposal systems, and (f) providing improved recovery systems specific to the Gas Unit. All equipment will be net of any applicable salvage value.
Mine-Through Development Costs
 
"" shall mean all royalty, direct and general administration, selling, land rental, well closing, vehicle, excise tax and other costs which are not directly associated with Mine-Through Production Costs and Mine-Through Development Costs of the Well.
Mine-Through Non-Production Costs
 
"" shall mean costs incurred to operate and maintain Wells and related equipment and facilities, including applicable operating costs of support equipment and facilities and other costs of operating and maintaining those wells and related equipment and facilities, including, but not limited to: (a) costs of direct labor to operate the wells and related equipment and facilities, (b) repairs and maintenance, (c) materials, supplies, and fuel consumed and supplies utilized in operating the Wells and related equipment and facilities, (d) property taxes and insurance applicable to PDPR and Wells and related equipment and facilities, and (e) severance and taxes.
Mine-Through Production Costs
ad valorem
 
"" shall mean any area that is both (i) not a Coal Area and (ii) owned, leased or otherwise controlled by the Coal Parties as of the Effective Date or acquired by the Coal Parties at any time thereafter while CNX is an Affiliate of CEI.
Non-Coal Area
 
"" shall mean (a) with respect to Wells not owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date, any Well that, when originally Spudded or acquired (whichever is later) by any Coal Party or Gas Party, is located in a Non-Coal Area, or (b) with respect to Wells owned by any Coal Party or Gas Party as of the Effective Date, (i) in the event that such Party is in fact either a Coal Party or a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Non-Coal Area on the Effective Date, or (ii) in the event that such Party is neither a Coal Party nor a Gas Party on the Effective Date, any such Well that is located in a Non-Coal Area on the date on which such Party first becomes a Coal Party or a Gas Party; for the avoidance of doubt, the term "Non-Coal Area Well" shall expressly include any Sealed Gob Area Well.
Non-Coal Area Well
 
"" shall mean any portion of any coal seam that, as of the time of the proposed event or activity (including, without limitation, Stimulation), is (a) not controlled by any Coal Party, or (b) controlled by a Coal Party but not reasonably
Non-Viable Coal Seam
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
likely to ever be mined commercially by any Coal Party based upon reasonable assumptions and trade custom in effect as of the time of the proposed event or activity (including, without limitation, Stimulation).
 
"" shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in .
Notice
Schedule A
 
"" shall mean the net present value of the PTCF as determined immediately prior to mine-through and projected for the remaining economic life of the subject Well calculated using a discount rate of ten percent (10%).
NPV
 
"" shall mean any national, federal, state, local or other government or political subdivision or any agency, authority, board, bureau, commission, department or instrumentality of either, or any court, tribunal, grand jury or arbitrator, in each case whether foreign or domestic.
Official Body
 
"" shall mean the cash expenses of operating any Well, System or other equipment, as distinguished from the Capital Costs associated with Development, and shall include, without limitation, (a) any operating fees and expenses due under any operating agreement, (b) any in transit and/or collection fees, (c) the expenses of gathering and marketing production from any Well, (d) applicable , production, severance and excise taxes, (e) royalty and overriding royalty payments, (f) costs of power, supplies and services, (g) insurance and damages, (h) costs of legal, regulatory and environmental compliance and all fees associated therewith, including attorneys' fees, and (i) any expenses commonly known as lifting expenses (including, without limitation, Well Fluid expenses and Gas processing expenses).
Operating Expenses
ad valorem
 
"" shall mean a Coal Party or a Gas Party, as the context requires.
Party
 
"" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, joint venture, government or political subdivision or agency thereof, or any other entity.
Person
 
"" or "" shall mean, with respect to any Gas Asset, Pre Tax Operating Income before depreciation, depletion, amortization, interest expense and income taxes; for the avoidance of doubt, PTCF shall be based on real or unescalated costs and revenues.
Pre Tax Cash Flow
PTCF
 
"" shall mean, with respect to a Gas Asset, (a) the total future estimated revenues generated by the sale of Gas from the Gas Asset over the estimated economic life of the Gas Asset, (b) the total future estimated Mine-Through Production Costs (but not Mine-Through Non-Production Costs).
Pre Tax Operating Income
less
 
"" shall mean the Coal Area plus the Non-Coal Area.
Project Area
 
"" or "" shall mean the net Gas Reserves associated with an operating Well that (a) in the case of Coal Gas, is completed in one (1) or more target coal seams, or (b) in the case of Conventional O & G, is completed in one or more target reservoirs, and (c) is producing commercially recoverable quantities of Gas in an economically viable manner. A Gas Asset's total PDPR immediately before and immediately after the planned mining operations shall be calculated based on forecasts prepared by the applicable Gas Party for the completed coal seams or gas reservoirs using the actual historical production performance of the particular Well in the Gas Unit.
Proved Developed Producing Reserves
PDPR
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall mean any Gob that, as determined by the applicable Coal Party in its sole discretion, is sealed and not (a) directly subject to or associated with active mining or (b) subject to a Ten Year Mine Plan for future mining activities; , , that the fact that Gob is subject to a Coal Permit shall in no way mean that such Gob is not within a Sealed Gob Area. Upon request of any Gas Party, the applicable Coal Party shall confirm in writing that a given Gob is, in fact, a Sealed Gob Area.
Sealed Gob Area
provided
however
 
"" shall mean any Gob Well that, at the time a given action is taken or proposed to be take (for example, plugging), is located in a Sealed Gob Area.
Sealed Gob Area Well
 
"" shall mean the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
 
"" shall mean the date on which Capture activities at any Non-Coal Area Well is scheduled to cease in anticipation of mine-through.
Shut-In Date
 
"" shall mean to commence drilling a Well as more specifically defined as the time when the drill bit first penetrates the earth.
Spud
 
"" or "" shall mean the artificial fracture or stimulation of geological zones or strata.
Stimulate
Stimulation
 
"" of any Person at any time shall mean (i) any corporation or trust of which more than 50% (by number of shares or number of votes) of the outstanding capital stock or shares of beneficial interest normally entitled to vote for the election of one or more directors or trustees (regardless of any contingency which does or may suspend or dilute the voting rights) is at such time owned directly or indirectly by such Person or one or more of such Person's Subsidiaries, (ii) any partnership of which such Person is a general partner or of which more than 50% of the partnership interests is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person or one or more of such Person's Subsidiaries, (iii) any limited liability company of which such Person is a member or of which more than 50% of the limited liability company interests is at the time directly or indirectly owned by such Person or one or more of such Person's Subsidiaries or (iv) any corporation, trust, partnership, limited liability company or other entity which is controlled by such Person or one or more of such Person's Subsidiaries.
Subsidiary
 
"" shall mean all equipment that is necessary to Capture Gas produced from any Well other than equipment needed merely to vent Gas, including, without limitation, compressors, treating facilities, surface storage facilities, processing plants and gathering or transportation lines.
System(s)
 
"" shall mean at any time the then completed mine plan delivered to the Gas Parties with respect to the Coal Parties' projected mining activities for the subsequent ten (10) years produced by the Coal Parties for areas in which the Gas Parties hold Gas Rights as of the Effective Date or have acquired Gas Rights at any time thereafter while CNX is an Affiliate of CEI, and certified by the chief operating officer of CEI as genuine; , , that any area that is not reasonably likely ever to be subject to Gas Development or Capture activities by any Gas Party need not be included in any such plan.
Ten Year Mine Plan
provided
however
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
"" shall mean any Gas extracted from a mine by way of the mine's ventilation fans.
VAM
 
"" shall mean a vertical borehole into a mine drilled or used for the purpose of venting Coal Gas for mine safety, including, without limitation, the release of pressure in a Sealed Gob Area as required by any Official Body.
Vertical Vent Hole
 
"" shall mean any portion of any coal seam other than a Non-Viable Coal Seam.
Viable Coal Seam
 
"" shall mean a vertical-to-horizontal Well drilled in advance of mining and producing from within virgin coal seams.
VTH Well
 
"" shall mean a facility used for disposal of fluids produced as a result of the drilling, stimulation, recompletion, development, production, and gathering of Gas.
Water Disposal Facility
 
"" shall mean any fluid produced in conjunction with the Capture of Gas appropriate and eligible for disposal in any Class II or V or similar Water Disposal Facility permitted by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or any similar Official Body.
Well Fluid
 
"" shall mean a well drilled and permitted, or later permitted, for the commercial production of Gas, including, without limitation, any Conventional Well, VTH Well, Frac Well, or Gob Well.
Well
 
Capitalized terms used and not defined above or otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in the Master Separation Agreement unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
1.2 Accounting and Other Principles
 
Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, all computations and determinations as to accounting or financial matters pursuant to this Agreement shall be made and prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time (including principles of consolidation where appropriate), and all accounting or financial terms shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms by such generally accepted accounting principles. Unless the context clearly requires a different interpretation, references in this Agreement to any Gas Asset mean a Gas Asset which the Gas Parties owned, leased or otherwise controlled as of the Effective Date or at any time thereafter when CNX is an Affiliate of CEI. The intention of the parties is that this Agreement applies (i) to the properties and other assets of the Gas Parties which they own, lease or otherwise control during the period of time from on and after the Effective Date to and including the date on which CNX is no longer an Affiliate of CEI and (ii) to the properties and other assets of the Coal Parties which they own, lease or otherwise control during the period of time from on and after the Effective Date to and including the date on which CNX is no longer an Affiliate of CEI.
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
2. General Objectives and Overriding Principles
 
All Gas Development and Capture pursuant to the terms of this Agreement shall be subject to, and all other provisions of this Agreement shall be construed and applied in a manner which is consistent with, the following general objectives and overriding principles:
 
2.1. Safety
 
The safety of mining and Gas operations is the most important objective of the business relationship memorialized in this Agreement.
 
2.2. Separate Businesses with General Obligation to Cooperate
 
While they are separate, self-sufficient business groups, in light of certain overlapping interests, the Coal Parties on the one hand and the Gas Parties on the other shall work with the other in good faith with the goal of maximizing value for both groups subject to the terms of this Agreement.
 
2.3. Priority of Coal Estate; Right to Vent/Shut In
 
With respect to any Gas operations within a Mine Area, the Coal Parties' coal operations, including considerations of mine productivity and mine safety, shall at all times prevail over Gas operations. Consequently, with respect to any Mine Area, the Coal Parties shall have the unencumbered right and ability, exercisable in any Coal Party's sole discretion, to vent and/or shut in, at any and all times, any Gas so as to assure and promote at all times a safe and productive working environment in any Coal Party's mine if such Coal Party determines, in its sole discretion, that it is not safe or productive for the applicable Gas Party to produce, collect, gather or otherwise Capture such Gas.
 
2.4. Limitation on Liability
 
Except as set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Coal Parties shall have no liability to any Gas Party arising from any determination by any Coal Party with respect to its coal operations within a Coal Area, including venting and shutting in Gas, unless the Gas Parties demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that such determination was made in bad faith.
 
2.5. Core Samples and Related Matters
 
Upon request, the Coal Parties shall make available for review to the Gas Parties the results of any core hole samples and desorption tests relating to Gas and any title studies, opinions or reports relating to Gas for any areas in which the Gas Parties hold Gas Rights as of the Effective Date or have acquired Gas Rights at any time thereafter when CNX is an Affiliate of CEI. Upon request, the Gas Parties shall make available for review to the Coal Parties the results of any core hole samples and desorption test results relating to Gas and any title studies relating to coal for any areas in which the Gas Parties hold as of the Effective Date or have acquired Gas Rights thereafter at any time when CNX is an Affiliate of CEI.
 
2.6. Consent for Mining and Gas Operations
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement relating to certain required payments, the Gas Parties agree that each of them shall execute and deliver any waiver or consent as may be
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
reasonably necessary to allow mining operations in the vicinity of any property owned or controlled by any Gas Party, including, without limitation, any Gas Asset. The Coal Parties agree that (a) the Gas Parties are hereby granted the rights, if any, which the Coal Parties have to Capture Gas from any Well associated with such Coal Party's property within the Project Area, and (b) each of them shall deliver any waiver or consent as may be reasonably required for such Well, including, without limitation, with regard to Well spacing restrictions and location of Systems; , , that, with respect to any Mine Area Well, and in order to promote mine safety or mine productivity, any Coal Party may refuse to (x) waive its rights or (y) consent to any proposed action.
provided
however
 
2.7. Operational Relationship Between Gas Parties and Coal Parties
 
2.7.1 CEI Contact and CNX Contact
 
In order to facilitate a smooth operational relationship between the Gas Parties and the Coal Parties, each of CNX and CEI shall designate a representative with operational knowledge to serve as such Party's principal contact for the other Party in respect of matters arising under, or in connection with, this Agreement (with respect to CNX, the ""; with respect to CEI, the ""). The full contact information for each such representative as of the date of this Agreement is set forth on attached hereto and made a part hereof. Each of CEI and CNX shall promptly notify the other Party and update to the extent that any information relating to the CEI Contact or the GasCo Contact changes.
GasCo Contact
CEI Contact
Schedule 2
Schedule 2
 
2.7.2 Coordination of Annual Drilling Plan and Ten Year Mine Plan
 
In addition to overseeing all operational matters relating to this Agreement, it shall be the duty of the GasCo Contact and the CEI Contact to coordinate in good faith the Annual Drilling Plan with the Ten Year Mine Plan as follows: (a) not later than September 1 of each year, the GasCo Contact shall deliver to the CEI Contact a draft of the Annual Drilling Plan for the next following calendar year for coordination with the Ten Year Mine Plan (it being understood that such draft shall have been the result of prior coordination, as reasonably necessary, between the GasCo Contact and the CEI Contact, or their respective designees), (b) not later than October 1 of the same year, the CEI Contact, subject to the consent of the GasCo Contact, shall approve a mutually agreeable final form of Annual Drilling Plan for the next following calendar year that is appropriately coordinated with the Ten Year Mine Plan.
 
3. Certain Operating Terms
 
The following operating terms shall govern the Capture of Gas by the Gas Parties under this Agreement:
 
3.1. Activities in Non-Coal Area
 
3.1.1 Control of Gas Parties Over Operations
 
Except as set forth below in this Section 3.1.1, the Gas Parties, in their sole discretion and at their sole cost and expense, shall be responsible for the Development of Wells and the Capture of Gas in any Non-Coal Area, including, without limitation, where to locate Wells, what types of Wells to drill, where to locate or expand Systems, how and when to market Gas and all related matters. Notwithstanding the foregoing the Gas
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
Parties shall (a) through the delivery of the Annual Drilling Plan, at all times keep the applicable Coal Parties reasonably informed of where the Gas Parties intend to locate Wells and Systems in any Non-Coal Area, and (b) consent to any reasonable request by a Coal Party to change the proposed location of a Non-Coal Area Well not yet drilled (for the avoidance of doubt any request to move a proposed Well to another location in the same Gas Unit shall be deemed reasonable); , , that the foregoing duty to inform and consent shall not apply to any area that is not reasonably likely to ever become a Coal Area; and , , that the applicable Coal Party shall promptly pay upon demand to the applicable Gas Party any incremental Capital Costs of Development incurred by the Gas Party as a result of its compliance with the Coal Party's request to change the location of any Well.
prima facie
provided
however
further
provided
however
 
3.1.2 Plugging (Non-Coal Area)
 
The Gas Parties shall be responsible, in their sole discretion and at their sole cost and expense, for the plugging of any Well that, at the time of the proposed plugging, is located in any Non-Coal Area. The Gas Parties shall keep the Coal Parties reasonably informed of planned plugging activities other than plugging activities in any area that is not reasonably likely to ever become a Coal Area. No Gas Party shall delay the plugging of a Well then located in a Non-Coal Area that is not then producing Gas in commercial quantities to the extent reasonably foreseeable that such Well will be located in a Coal Area at a later date and hence subject to any Coal Party's duty to plug as set forth below in Section 3.2 [Activities in Coal Area]; in the event of such delay, the applicable Gas Party shall reimburse the applicable Coal Party upon demand for the Coal Party's out-of-pocket costs incurred in plugging such Well. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any Coal Party determines, in its sole discretion, that any Sealed Gob Area Well should be plugged for the safety of any Mine Area, the applicable Gas Party shall, upon written request, plug such Well, provided that the applicable Coal Party shall reimburse the Gas Party upon demand for all out-of-pocket costs arising from any such plugging.
 
3.2. Activities in Coal Area
 
3.2.1 Development of Wells in Coal Area
 
The Coal Parties, in their sole discretion and at their sole cost and expense, may engage in the Development of any Coal Area Well other than the expansion of any System to connect to a Well. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Gas Parties may, with the prior written approval of the applicable Coal Party (such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld), drill and Capture Gas from a Coal Area Well provided that the applicable Gas Party, at its sole cost and expense, shall be responsible for all costs associated therewith, including, without limitation, costs of plugging, Capital Costs associated with Development of such Well and Operating Expenses.
 
3.2.2 Capture of Gas in Coal Area
 
Except as set forth above in Section 2 [General Objectives and Overriding Principles] and below in this Section 3.2.2, the Gas Parties, at their sole cost and expense, shall be responsible for all aspects of the Capture of Gas in any Coal Area, including, without limitation, how and when to transport, store and market Gas. Except as set forth below, in Section 3.2.3 [Participation by Coal Parties in Experimental Projects], the Coal
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
Parties shall have no right to participate in the Capture of Gas in a Coal Area. The Gas Parties shall keep the Coal Parties reasonably informed of all Gas Capture activities within any Coal Area; notwithstanding the foregoing, consistent with Sections 2.3 [Priority of Coal Estate; Right to Vent/Shut In] and 2.4 [Limitation on Liability], except as set forth below in Section 3.2.4 [Mine-Through of Wells], the Coal Parties shall not be liable to any Gas Party for any Losses arising from, and the Gas Parties agree to indemnify and hold harmless each Coal Party against any Claims made with respect to, any Coal Party's decision to plug a given Well then located in a Mine Area at any time to promote mine safety or mine productivity.
 
3.2.3 Participation by Coal Parties in Experimental Projects
 
The Coal Parties shall be entitled to participate in Mine Area projects for the Capture of VAM. The terms and conditions of such participation shall be agreed upon by the applicable Gas Parties and Coal Parties.
 
3.2.4 Mine-Through of Wells
 
Subject only to the payment obligations set forth in Section 3.2.5 below [Coal Parties Pay for Loss of Non-Coal Area Gas Assets due to Mine-Through], the Coal Parties shall have the absolute right to mine through any Well located in a Mine Area. Not later than sixty (60) days prior to the Shut-In Date, if any Coal Party anticipates that mine-through of a Well from which any Gas Party is Capturing Gas will occur as a result of a Coal Party's mining operations, the Coal Party shall notify the applicable Gas Party of the anticipated mine-through. In the case of a Frac Well that could be recompleted as a Gob Well following mine-through, the Coal Party shall also inform the applicable Gas Party whether or not the Coal Party intends to recomplete the Frac Well as a Gob Well. In the event that the Coal Party does not elect to recomplete the Well, the Gas Party shall have the option, at its sole cost and expense, and with the prior written consent of the applicable Coal Party, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, to recomplete the Frac Well as a Gob Well; , , that the Gas Party shall be responsible for the plugging of the Gob Well.
provided
however
 
3.2.5 Coal Parties Pay for Loss of Non-Coal Area Gas Assets due to Mine-Through
 
As more fully set forth on attached hereto and made a part hereof, the applicable Coal Party shall reimburse the applicable Gas Party for loss of each Non-Coal Area Well and associated Gas Assets. As more fully set forth on , the Coal Parties shall have the right to audit the applicable Gas Party's books and records relating to any given Non-Coal Area Well once a Coal Party has received a demand for payment in respect of mine-through of that Well; the Gas Parties shall comply promptly and in good faith with any such request to audit books and records. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Gas Parties shall be responsible, at their sole cost and expense, to cure any default in any Gas lease or other governing document caused by any cessation of Capture activities resulting from the mine-through of any Well.
Schedule 3
Schedule 3
 
3.2.6 Plugging (Coal Area)
 
The Coal Parties shall be responsible, in their sole discretion and at their sole cost and expense, for the plugging of any Well that, at the time of the proposed plugging,
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
is located in any Coal Area; , , that the Coal Parties shall not be responsible for the costs of plugging any Coal Area Well drilled or recompleted at the election of any Gas Party as set forth in Sections 3.2.1 [Development of Wells in Coal Area] and 3.2.4 [Mine-Through of Wells]. The applicable Gas Parties shall fully cooperate with the applicable Coal Parties as reasonably requested with regard to the plugging of any Well then located within a Coal Area. Except to the extent requested by a Gas Party, no Coal Party shall delay the plugging of a Well then located in a Coal Area that is not then producing Gas in commercial quantities to the extent reasonably foreseeable that such Well will be located in a Non-Coal Area at a later date and hence subject to any Gas Party's duty to plug as set forth above in Section 3.1 [Activities in Non-Coal Area]; in the event of such delay, the applicable Coal Party shall reimburse the applicable Gas Party upon demand for the Gas Party's out-of-pocket costs incurred in plugging such Well; to the extent that any delay is requested by a Gas Party, the Gas Party shall be responsible, at its sole cost and expense, for the plugging of the subject Well.
provided
however
 
3.2.7 Master Control System
 
Any Master Control System with respect to any Coal Area shall be owned, operated and maintained by the Gas Parties at their sole cost and expense. The Gas Parties shall also bear the cost and expense of (a) extending any Master Control System for new Wells within any Coal Area, and (b) installing any Master Control System with respect to Coal Areas created after the date of this Agreement. Whether or not to make any material upgrade to any Master Control System (as distinguished from hooking up additional Wells to an existing Master Control System) and which parties shall bear the Capital Costs thereof, shall be determined by the Parties in a mutually agreeable manner. The Gas Parties agree, however, that any Master Control System shall be considered a "common servant" even though it remains a Gas Party asset and the responsibility of the Gas Parties to operate. Each Gas Party shall cooperate with each Coal Party in providing necessary access to any Master Control System on a 24-hour per day, 365-day per year basis for monitoring purposes only. Any Master Control System shall at all times be operated in accordance with the general objectives and overriding principles set forth in Section 2 above.
 
3.2.8 Certain Coal Party and Gas Party Employees
 
So long as the affected Parties are Affiliates and for a period of three (3) years after the date on which such Parties first cease to be Affiliates, without the prior written consent of the other Party, no Gas Party or Coal Party shall be entitled to hire away from the other Party any employee customarily employed in Gas Capture related activities within a Mine Area. CNX shall be deemed to have given such written consent to the extent (i) that an employment or severance agreement between CNX and its employee specifically provides that under certain circumstances that employee may be re-employed by a Coal Party and (ii) the Coal Party re-employs that employee in accordance with those circumstances.
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
3.3. Certain Matters Relating to Systems
 
3.3.1 Relocation of Systems and Other Surface Assets
 
Subject to the express condition precedent set forth at the end of this Section 3.3.1, at the reasonable request of any Coal Party, the applicable Gas Parties shall promptly cause any portion of any System or other surface asset located in a Coal Area to be relocated in order to facilitate the Coal Parties' coal operations, including considerations of mine productivity and mine safety; , , that any such relocation resulting primarily from a Coal Party's location or relocation of any surface facility relating to its mining operations shall be at the sole cost and expense of the applicable Coal Party which promptly, but in any event not later than thirty (30) days following demand by the applicable Gas Party, shall reimburse the applicable Gas Party for the Gas Party's out-of-pocket costs arising from any such relocation. Any request for relocation under this Section shall be made in writing and received by the applicable Gas Party not less than sixty (60) days in advance of the earlier of (a) the first date on which any application or other required paperwork is due in respect of such relocation (if any), or (b) the date on which the relocation work must commence in order to complete the relocation within the timeframe requested in a reasonable, workmanlike manner. Timely delivery of any request shall be an express condition precedent to the maturation of any Gas Party's duty to relocate any portion of any System pursuant to this Section 3.3.1.
provided
however
 
3.3.2 Subsidence of Systems; Indemnity
 
Each Coal Party shall have the right to subside any portion of any System located within a Mine Area; , , that such Coal Party shall reimburse the applicable Gas Party for the Gas Party's out-of-pocket costs arising from damage to a Current System. Each of the Gas Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Coal Parties from and against any Gas Party Claim relating to the subsidence of any (a) Current System, to the extent of any Claim relating to any Loss other than out-of-pocket costs described above, and (b) Future System.
provided
however
 
4. Stimulation
 
Subject to the limitations described below in this Section 4, the Gas Parties shall have the absolute right to Stimulate any Viable Coal Seam and any Non-Viable Coal Seam in the Project Area, , , that the Gas Parties shall not conduct any such Stimulation with respect to any Viable Coal Seam or any Non-Viable Coal Seam that adversely affects any Viable Coal Seam in a material manner. In no way limiting the foregoing, each Gas Party expressly agrees that it shall (a) employ only standard Stimulation techniques consistent with past practices with respect to any Viable Coal Seam and (b) keep the Coal Parties reasonably informed of any Stimulation activities with respect to any Viable Coal Seam. Notwithstanding the foregoing clause (a), the Gas Parties may employ experimental or non-standard Stimulation techniques with respect to any Viable Coal Seam with the prior written consent of the applicable Coal Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. Any material deviation from standard Stimulation techniques with respect to Viable Coal Seams described above must be fully disclosed in the Annual Drilling Plan; if, at any time, any Coal Party determines, by clear and convincing evidence, that (xx) any Gas Party is conducting Stimulation in violation of this Section 4 [Stimulation] and (yy) such Stimulation could reasonably be expected to cause material damage to, or otherwise adversely affect in a material manner any Viable Coal Seam, such Coal Party may notify the applicable Gas Party and said Gas Party shall immediately halt the subject Stimulation pending resolution of the matter; the Gas Parties
provided
however
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
expressly agree to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Coal Parties from and against any Claim asserted by a Person not a Coal Party, and shall reimburse any Coal Party for any and all Losses, excluding assessments, penalties and fines, arising from such stoppage of Stimulation.
 
5. Permits; Licenses; Bonding
 
5.1. Non-Coal Area Wells
 
All necessary permits, licenses and bonds relating to the Development of any Non-Coal Area Well and the Capture of Gas from any Non-Coal Area Well shall be obtained by and held in the name of the applicable Gas Party. Prior to the commencement of drilling of any Non-Coal Area Well, the applicable Gas Party shall obtain the required title opinions and undertake any necessary curative work required for the commencement of drilling. To the extent that any Coal Party has previously obtained any title opinion or caused any other title work to be done in regard to a given area, the Coal Party shall promptly deliver to the applicable Gas Party upon request a copy of each such title opinion and a summary of any other title work done (together with copies of any document prepared in connection with such work if requested).
 
5.2. Coal Area Wells
 
Except with respect to Coal Area Wells drilled or recompleted at the election of the Gas Parties, all necessary permits, licenses and bonds relating to (a) the Development of any Coal Area Well shall be obtained by and held in the name of the applicable Coal Party and (b) the Capture of Gas from any Coal Area Well shall be obtained by and held in the name of the applicable Gas Party; to the extent that the foregoing are not severable as between Development on the one hand and Capture on the other, all such necessary permits, licenses and bonds relating to any Coal Area Well shall be held in the name of the applicable Gas Party and the applicable Coal Party shall promptly, but in any event not later than thirty (30) days following demand by the applicable Gas Party, pay to the applicable Gas Party the Capital Costs associated with such permits, licenses and bonds. Except with respect to Coal Area Wells drilled at the election of the Gas Parties, prior to the commencement of drilling of any Coal Area Well, the applicable Coal Party shall obtain the required title opinions and undertake any necessary curative work required for the commencement of drilling. To the extent that any Gas Party has previously obtained any title opinion or caused any other title work to be done in regard to a given area, the Gas Party shall promptly deliver to the applicable Coal Party upon request a copy of each such title opinion and a summary of any other title work done (together with copies of any document prepared in connection with such work if requested). With respect to Coal Area Wells drilled or recompleted at the election of the Gas Parties, all necessary permits, licenses and bonds relating to the Development of such Coal Area Wells and title opinions and any necessary curative work required for the commencement of drilling of such Coal Area Wells shall be obtained by the Gas Parties.
 
6. Proceeds from Wells
 
Except as expressly set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, the Gas Parties shall receive all proceeds from the Capture of Gas from all Wells.
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
7. Measurement
 
The Gas Parties shall (a) accurately measure all Capture of Gas for allocation to royalty and working interest owners, and (b) bear all costs and expenses for the installation and calibration of flow measuring devices, to be located on the surface, necessary to measure and allocate production. The Gas Parties shall provide any measurement data as may be reasonably requested by the Coal Parties.
 
8. Compliance with Safety and Access Policies
 
As between the Coal Parties on the one hand and the Gas Parties on the other hand, with respect to any activity on the property of another Party, (a) with regard to safety (i) each Party shall observe and comply with the more stringent of its own or the other Party's safety policy statements, guidelines and requirements and (ii) all personnel engaged or directed by any Party and all subcontractors engaged in activities on behalf of any Party shall similarly comply with the more stringent of such safety policy statements, guidelines and requirements as required of the Parties themselves, and (b) with regard to access (i) the visiting Party shall observe and comply with the other Party's contractor access policies, and (ii) cause all personnel engaged or directed by such visiting Party and all subcontractors engaged in activities on behalf of such visiting Party to comply with the other Party's access policies as required of the visiting Party itself.
 
9. Discharging of Duties
 
The Coal Parties and Gas Parties shall use their reasonable efforts in discharging their duties under this Agreement and shall undertake their efforts in an efficient, businesslike and cost-effective manner.
 
10. Duty to Keep Parties Informed
 
Each Coal Party and each Gas Party shall keep the other Parties informed of any matters that any Coal Party or Gas Party, in the exercise of reasonable judgment, considers to be a material matter relating to (a) the construction, maintenance, operation, location and repair of Systems and Wells hereunder, and (b) any proposed changes to any Ten Year Mine Plan and any Annual Drilling Plan.
 
11. Property to be Kept Free of Liens
 
The Gas Parties shall keep all real property and all personal property within the Coal Area free and clear of all liens and encumbrances arising in any manner from the Gas Parties' performance of services and the activities relative to the Development, maintenance and repair of the Wells or facilities associated therewith and the Capture of Gas to the extent that any such lien or encumbrance could reasonably be expected to impede or frustrate the mining operations of any Coal Party. The Coal Parties agree that each of them shall keep all real property and all personal property within the Project Area free and clear of all liens and encumbrances arising in any manner from the Coal Parties' mining development and operations to the extent that any such lien or encumbrance could reasonably be expected to impede or frustrate the Gas operations of any Gas Party.
 
12. Independent Contractors
 
The Coal Parties and the Gas Parties shall observe, and consult with each other in connection with, the performance of their obligations under this Agreement; ,
provided
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
, that except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, no Coal Party shall have the right to supervise, direct, or control the performance of any Gas Party's obligations, and no Gas Party shall have the right to supervise, direct, or control the performance of any Coal Party's obligations.
however
 
13. Unitization
 
Any Gas Party shall have the right to unitize any Gas Asset as may be (a) established or prescribed by field rules or other regulatory order or (b) otherwise determined by any Gas Party, in its sole discretion.
 
14. Disposal of Fluids; License to Use of Voids and Pools for Water
 
Except as expressly set forth in this Section 14, each Gas Party shall be responsible for, at its sole cost and expense, the disposal of all fluids produced in conjunction with the Capture of Gas. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each of the Coal Parties grants each of the Gas Parties a license that shall remain in effect throughout the term of this Agreement for the purpose of disposing of Well Fluid in any void, formation or pool owned or otherwise controlled by any Coal Party; , , that, except with respect to disposal arrangements in place as of the date of this Agreement with respect to which the applicable Gas Party holds the relevant permit or other governing document (which arrangements shall remain in place pursuant to their terms), no Gas Party shall cause any such Well Fluid to be injected or otherwise placed in any such void, formation or pool without (a) the payment by the applicable Gas Party to the applicable Coal Party (on mutually agreeable terms) of the incremental out-of-pocket costs resulting from such injection or placement and (b) the prior written consent of the applicable Coal Party (which shall not be unreasonably withheld). The Coal Parties shall use reasonable care to maintain, update and otherwise keep current each Coal Permit or other governing document relating to any Water Disposal Facility.
provided
however
 
15. Shared Surface Facilities and Related Items
 
For the avoidance of doubt, and in no way limiting their application to any other Section of this Agreement, this Section 15 [Shared Surface Facilities and Related Items] shall be expressly subject to the provisions of Section 8 [Compliance with Safety and Access Policies].
 
15.1 Utilization of Each Parties Roads and Rights of Way; License
 
Each Coal Party and each Gas Party may, consistent with any limitations imposed by permits and relevant agreements with third parties, use any road, and/or right of way owned, constructed or controlled by any Coal Party or any Gas Party when necessary or convenient for mining operations, Development, Capture, and all other related activities. To the extent not already accomplished in other documents, each of the Coal Parties hereby grants to each of the Gas Parties, and each of the Gas Parties hereby grants to each of the Coal Parties a license to use its roads and rights of way consistent with the foregoing for the term of this Agreement.
 
15.2 Access to Shaft Sites and Vertical Vent Holes; License
 
Each Gas Party may, consistent with any limitations imposed by Section 8 [Compliance with Safety and Access Policies], permits and relevant agreements with third parties, access any shaft site or borehole owned, constructed or controlled by any
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
Coal Party when necessary or convenient for Development, Capture and all other related activities. To the extent not already accomplished in other documents, each of the Coal Parties hereby grants to each of the Gas Parties a license to access its shaft sites and Vertical Vent Holes consistent with the foregoing for the term of this Agreement. The foregoing shall expressly apply to Section 14 [Disposal of Fluids; License to Use of Voids and Pools for Water].
 
15.3 Power Lines and Substations; License
 
Each Gas Party may, consistent with any limitations imposed by permits, relevant agreements with third parties and applicable law/regulation, access, and draw electrical power from any power line or substation owned, constructed or controlled by any Coal Party when necessary or convenient for Development, Capture and all other related activities; , , that, upon demand, the applicable Gas Party shall reimburse at cost the applicable Coal Party for any usage of power in connection with the foregoing. To the extent not already accomplished in other documents, each of the Coal Parties hereby grants to each of the Gas Parties a license to access, and draw electrical power from, its power lines and substations consistent with the foregoing for the term of this Agreement. The Gas Parties shall, upon demand, pay to the Coal Parties the Gas Parties' ratable share of all Operating Expenses and, with respect to any power line or substation constructed after the date of this Agreement, all Capital Costs, relating to power lines and substations owned, constructed or controlled by any Coal Party and benefiting the Gas Parties. No Coal Party shall transfer, assign, lease or abandon substantially all of its rights to any power line or substation without first offering such rights to the Gas Parties.
provided
however
 
15.4 Other Surface Facilities; Further Assurances
 
The Coal Parties and the Gas Parties shall cooperate to reach a mutually agreeable arrangement regarding the use of all other surface facilities (including, without limitation, offices, warehouses and other buildings) owned, leased or otherwise controlled by any Party to the extent reasonably necessary to the operations of any other Party. Each Party shall bear its own costs in connection with its efforts in this regard.
 
15.5 Radio Communication Systems; License
 
Each Coal Party and each Gas Party may, consistent with any limitations imposed by permits and relevant agreements with third parties and the provisions of Section 28 [Confidentiality], use any radio communication system owned, constructed or controlled by any Coal Party or any Gas Party when necessary or convenient for mining operations, Development, Capture, and all other related activities. To the extent not already accomplished in other documents, each of the Coal Parties hereby grants to each of the Gas Parties, and each of the Gas Parties hereby grants to each of the Coal Parties a license to use its radio communication systems consistent with the foregoing for the term of this Agreement.
 
15.6 Maintenance; Compliance with Permits; Abatement of Notices of Violation
 
Except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, each of the Coal Parties and each of the Gas Parties shall remain responsible, at its respective sole cost and expense, for
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
(a) the maintenance and repair of its roads, rights of way, power lines, substations, other surface facilities and radio communication systems, (b) compliance with the terms of all applicable permits issued to it (including reclamation) and (c) the abatement of all notices of violation which may be issued.
 
15.7 Exercise of Reasonable Care
 
Each of the Coal Parties and each of the Gas Parties shall exercise reasonable care in making use of any road, right of way, power line, substation, other surface facility or radio communication system owned, constructed or controlled by another Party to this Agreement in order to minimize the cost of maintaining and repairing the other Parties' assets.
 
16. Reservation of Right to Control Coal Operations
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each of the Coal Parties have, and do hereby reserve, the exclusive right to control all aspects of their coal operations and to make any and all determinations, in their sole discretion, with respect to such coal operations, including, without limitation, revising or changing any mine plans, requiring the plugging or venting of Wells (as provided herein) for coal operations, or, curtailing, interrupting or totally ceasing such coal operations. By the signatures of their authorized representatives below, each of the Gas Parties agrees to, confirms and ratifies the foregoing reservation of rights.
 
17. Reservation of Mining Rights
 
The Coal Parties hereby reserve and retain all mining rights, whether expressly granted by lease or other agreement or implied at law, to, without limitation, use the surface within any Coal Area for activities associated with coal mining including, without limitation, venting Coal Gas and drilling Vertical Vent Holes for degasification.
 
18. Use of Gas for Fuel
 
At their sole cost and expense (including Capital Costs and Operating Expenses), the Coal Parties shall have the right to use Coal Gas produced from Coal Area Wells consistent with past practices (including consumption practices). Except as otherwise provided in existing agreements in effect as of the date of execution of this Agreement, the Coal Parties shall pay the applicable Gas Party for any Coal Gas used in connection with mining operations at reasonable market prices determined by comparison to prices received for similar quality Coal Gas produced from Wells in the same Mine Area at the time of such utilization. Any matter arising under this Section 18 (including, without limitation, any attempt by any Official Body to assert jurisdiction over the Parties in respect of the matters set forth in this Section 18), is expressly subject to the provisions of Section 2.2 above [Separate Businesses with General Obligation to Cooperate].
 
19. Failure of Title
 
In the event any Failure of Title occurs within the Project Area, no Capital Costs associated with Development and no Operating Expenses shall be recouped by any Coal Party from any Gas Party and vice versa with respect to the assets in question. Each of the Gas Parties hereby (a) waives all of its rights and remedies as against the Coal Parties for any Loss arising from a Failure of Title, and (b) agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Coal Parties from and against any Claim asserted by a Person not
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
affiliated with the Coal Parties, and shall reimburse any Coal Party for any and all Losses, excluding assessments, penalties and fines, arising from or in connection with any Failure of Title, including, without limitation, any Claim and/or Loss for willful trespass regarding Capture of Coal Gas.
 
20. Indemnities
 
20.1 General Indemnity
 
Each of the Gas Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Coal Parties from and against any Claim asserted by a Person who is not a Coal Party and shall reimburse any Coal Party for any and all Losses (excluding assessments, penalties and fines) arising from personal injury or property damage resulting solely from that Gas Party's negligence on or after the Effective Date in conducting Gas operations within the Project Area. Each of the Coal Parties shall indemnify, hold harmless and defend the Gas Parties from and against any Claim asserted by a Person who is not a Gas Party and shall reimburse any Gas Party for any and all Losses (excluding assessments, penalties and fines) arising from personal injury or property damage resulting solely from that Coal Party's negligence on or after the Effective Date in conducting coal mining operations within the Project Area; , , that this indemnity of the Coal Parties shall not apply to: (a) except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any and all Claims or Losses arising from personal injury to any Gas Party's employees, or any Losses from damage to any Well, System or any other surface facility or from any loss of, or loss of access to, any Gas which personal injury, property damage and/or loss arise(s) in any manner from subsidence or any other effects of any Coal Party's full extraction mining, or (b) any and all Claims or Losses arising from any third party personal injury or third party property damage which personal injury or property damage (i) arises in any manner from subsidence or any other effects of any Coal Party's full extraction mining and (ii) would not have occurred but for the presence of any Well, System or surface facility within the Project Area and/or the Gas Parties' operations within the Project Area.
provided
however
 
20.2 Indemnity With Respect to Certain Leased Gas Rights
 
To the extent that any Current Gas Right or Future Gas Right shall consist of a right arising under a lease held by any Coal Party as lessee and the applicable Coal Party shall have assigned that right to a Gas Party in connection with this Agreement or the other Ancillary Agreements, the applicable Gas Party shall indemnify the applicable Coal Party from and against any Claim and shall reimburse such Coal Party for any and all Losses (excluding assessments, penalties and fines) arising from the exercise of rights by the lessor of such Current Gas Right or Future Gas Right pursuant to such lease.
 
21. Regulatory Matters; Litigation
 
21.1 General Principles  Regulatory Matters
 
The Coal Parties and the Gas Parties acknowledge that, due to the complexity of the regulatory proceedings applicable to the subject matter of this Agreement, detailed, specific delineation of each party's responsibility with respect to all regulatory matters would be impractical. Therefore, the basic principles set forth below shall be followed:
 
21.1.1 Notice of Adverse Regulatory Action
 
The Gas Parties shall promptly notify the Coal Parties of any oral or written threat or notice of adverse regulatory action received which could reasonably impact the Coal Parties' coal operations. The Coal Parties shall promptly notify the Gas Parties of any oral or written threat or notice of adverse regulatory action received which could reasonably impact the Gas Parties' Gas operations.
 
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
21.1.2 Applications Regarding Gas Units
 
All applications for the creation or modification of drilling Gas Units and for the pooling of Gas Units shall be prepared, filed and prosecuted by the appropriate Gas Party.
 
21.1.3 Matters Arising Before Official Bodies
 
The Gas Parties shall be responsible for resolving all matters arising before any Official Body that has or seeks to exercise regulatory jurisdiction over any matter affecting any Gas Party's operations within any Coal Area or any Non-Coal Area. Costs associated with these services shall all be considered a Capital Cost associated with Development.
 
21.1.4 Primary Contact and Responder
 
The Gas Parties shall be the primary contacts for all complaints, notices of violation, and similar items filed by or with a state or Federal agency that may arise relative to Gas Rights or Gas operations under this Agreement. The Gas Parties shall be responsible for curing, abating or otherwise responding to any complaints, notices or similar items described in this Section 21.1.4.
 
21.1.5 Escrow Accounts and Obligations
 
The Gas Parties shall be responsible for remitting all payments to any escrow account or otherwise satisfying all obligations arising in respect of Gas Capture established by any Official Body in respect of unknown or unlocatable owners and for conflicting claims and shall maintain such books and records as are required by statute or regulation in connection therewith.
 
21.2 General Principles  Litigation
 
The Coal Parties and the Gas Parties anticipate that legal issues and litigation hearings, proceedings and appeals may arise involving, without limitation, Coal Gas ownership issues, lease interpretation issues, title issues and regulatory issues, all of which are contemplated by this Section. Therefore, the basic principles set forth below shall be followed to the extent that the Coal Parties and the Gas Parties have a joint, and not adverse, interest (Section 21.2.1 and 21.2.3 shall also apply when the parties have adverse interests):
 
21.2.1 Notice
 
The Coal Parties shall promptly notify the Gas Parties, and vice versa, of any challenge or threat to the title of its lessor(s), or claim of ownership to any Gas, regardless of whether such challenge or claim is oral or written.
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
21.2.2 Attorneys
 
The applicable Coal Parties shall retain counsel, at the cost and expense of the Gas Parties affected, subject to approval by those Gas Parties, to represent the applicable Coal Parties and the applicable Gas Parties in any litigation, hearings, proceedings and appeals relating to any Gas Rights (a) in which a Coal Party has an ownership or leasehold interest and (b) which benefit the Gas Parties as contemplated by this Agreement.Except as otherwise set forth in this Section 21.2.2, the Gas Parties shall be responsible, at their sole cost and expense, for retaining counsel in connection with all Gas-related matters.
 
21.2.3 No Compromise
 
No Gas Party shall release, terminate, exchange, assign or in any manner compromise its or any Coal Party's claims to Gas or coal on such Coal Party's property arising from coal leases or other instruments without the prior written approval of the affected Coal Party. No Coal Party shall release, terminate, exchange, assign or in any manner compromise its or any Gas Party's claims to Gas arising from leases or other instruments without the prior written approval of the affected Gas Party, except to the extent required by the general objectives and overriding principles set forth in Section 2 above.
 
21.2.4 Cooperation
 
In addition to all other such obligations set forth in this Agreement, the Coal Parties and the Gas Parties shall cooperate in all aspects of the representation of their interests. No Coal Party shall settle or compromise any action or proceeding without the consent of the affected Gas Party where such settlement or compromise could directly or indirectly operate to the detriment of such Gas Party. No Gas Party shall settle or compromise any action or proceeding without the consent of the affected Coal Party where such settlement or compromise could directly or indirectly operate to the detriment of such Coal Party.
 
22. Allowances and Credits
 
To the extent available as of the Effective Date as a matter of law (whether state or federal) in respect of any Current Gas Rights, CEI shall retain all right, title and interest in and to any (a) carbon dioxide credits, as defined by 1605(b) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992, (b) emission allowances (including, without limitation, as relate to VAM) and (c) alternative fuels production or usage tax credits or tax allowances, or other similar tax credits or tax allowances. To the extent available after the Effective Date as a matter of law (whether state or federal), any such credits or allowances shall inure to the benefit of the Party designated by law as the owner of such credits or allowances.
 
In all other respects, the terms of that certain Tax Sharing Agreement dated of even date herewith by and between CEI and CNX shall govern the relationship of the Coal Parties and Gas Parties with regard to the tax matters as between the Coal Parties and the Gas Parties.
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
23. [Intentionally deleted.]
 
24. [Intentionally deleted.]
 
25. Parent Guarantee of Coal Parties and Gas Parties
 
CEI guarantees the performance of the obligations of any Coal Party hereunder. CNX guarantees the performance of the obligations of any Gas Party hereunder.
 
26. Payments
 
No payment required to be made under this Agreement shall be deemed made until indefeasibly paid in full in cash. Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary set forth elsewhere in this Agreement, each payment obligation described in this Agreement shall accrue upon the occurrence of the underlying transaction or occurrence and shall be payable without demand. Whenever any payment or action to be made or taken hereunder shall be stated to be due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment or action shall be made or taken on the next following Business Day.
 
27. Allocation of Corporate Opportunities; Future Gas Rights; Future Coal Rights
 
27.1 Allocation of Corporate Opportunities
 
Except as otherwise provided in Sections 27.2 [Future Gas Rights] and 27.3 [Future Coal Rights] below, so long as CNX shall be an Affiliate of CEI, (1) no Coal Party and no officer or director of a Coal Party (to the extent that any such Coal Party officer or director is also an officer or director of a Gas Party), shall have any duty to (a) inform any Gas Party of any corporate opportunity first identified by any Coal Party, or (b) offer any corporate opportunity to any Gas Party to the extent that any Coal Party declines to pursue an opportunity, and (2) no Gas Party and no officer or director of a Gas Party (to the extent that such Gas Party officer or director is also an officer or director of a Coal Party), shall have any duty to (a) inform any Coal Party of any corporate opportunity first identified by any Gas Party, or (b) offer any corporate opportunity to any Coal Party to the extent that any Gas Party declines to pursue an opportunity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as CNX shall be an Affiliate of CEI, to the extent that any corporate opportunity is simultaneously identified by both a Coal Party and a Gas Party, such opportunity shall belong to the applicable Coal Party who shall have no duty to offer any such opportunity to any Gas Party to the extent that any Coal Party declines to pursue such opportunity.
 
27.2 Future Gas Rights
 
27.2.1 Right of First Refusal
 
So long as CNX shall be an Affiliate of CEI, each Coal Party shall offer the appropriate Gas Party (as determined by CNX in its sole discretion) a first right of refusal to (a) participate in any transaction proposed to be entered into by the Coal Party involving Future Gas Rights within the United States of America, or (b) purchase, lease or otherwise control Future Gas Rights obtained by the Coal Party as a result of a final judicial determination, or as a result of regulatory or legal action by any governmental authority, holding that the Coal Party is the owner of any Future Gas Rights within the United States of America. To the extent such Future Gas Rights are not freely conveyable, assignable or transferable, the Coal Party hereby required to offer the first
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
right shall promptly offer to provide the beneficial ownership of such Future Gas Rights to the Gas Party to whom the Future Gas Rights would, but for the impediment(s) to conveyance, assignment or transfer, have been offered. The Coal Parties and the Gas Parties agree to attempt to negotiate in good faith a means by which the Gas Party to whom such Future Gas Rights or beneficial ownership are offered will reimburse the Coal Party for its fair share of the total costs associated with obtaining such Future Gas Rights.
 
27.2.2 Consideration
 
To the extent that the applicable Gas Party accepts any offer made pursuant to Section 27.2.1 [Right of First Refusal] above, the Gas Party shall pay the applicable Coal Party the fair market value of any Future Gas Rights assigned, conveyed, otherwise transferred to or obtained by such Gas Party.
 
27.2.3 Further Assurances
 
Each of the Coal Parties hereby expressly agrees to do such other acts and things as CNX or any other Gas Party in its reasonable discretion may deem necessary or advisable from time to time in order to effectuate the terms and intent of Sections 27.2.1 [Right of First Refusal] and 27.2.2 [Consideration] above; , , the Gas Parties shall bear all expenses and costs (including, without limitation, transfer taxes, property taxes, filing fees and attorneys' fees) relating to such acts and things performed by the Coal Parties at the Gas Parties' request.
provided
however
 
27.3 Future Coal Rights
 
The Gas Parties agree that so long as CNX shall be an Affiliate of CEI, the provisions of Sections 27.2.1 [Right of First Refusal], 27.2.2 [Consideration] and 27.2.3 [Further Assurances] above shall apply to the Gas Parties with respect to any coal rights they may propose to acquire or come to control.
 
28. Confidentiality
 
Confidentiality of information shall be governed by Article 5 [Access to Information] of the Master Separation Agreement. If the Master Separation Agreement shall have been terminated and three years have elapsed since its termination (resulting in Article 5, other than Section 5.8, no longer being in effect), then the following shall become applicable: Each Coal Party and each Gas Party shall keep confidential all information obtained from any Gas Party, in the case of a Coal Party, and any Coal Party, in the case of a Gas Party, which is nonpublic and confidential or proprietary in nature (including any information any Coal Party or any Gas Party specifically designates as confidential), except as provided below, and use such information only in connection with their respective capacities under this Agreement and for the purposes contemplated hereby. Each Coal Party and each Gas Party shall be permitted to disclose such information (i) to outside legal counsel, accountants and other professional advisors who need to know such information in connection with the administration and enforcement of this Agreement, subject to agreement of such Persons to maintain the confidentiality, (ii) to the extent required by applicable law or by any subpoena or similar legal process, or in connection with any investigation or proceeding arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) if it becomes publicly available other than as a
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
result of a breach of this Agreement or becomes available from a source not known to be subject to confidentiality restrictions, (iv) in connection with the exercise, preservation or protection of any right or remedy hereunder, applicable law or equity or (v) if the other party shall have consented to such disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Coal Party shall be entitled to disclose any information concerning any Gas Party to third parties in connection with any proposed transaction involving any Coal Party's ownership interest in any Gas Party, subject to agreement of such third parties to maintain the confidentiality of such information.
 
29. Term
 
Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, this Agreement shall remain in effect for a term of ninety-nine (99) years from the date hereof, and as long thereafter as any Gas is being Captured in the Project Area in paying quantities pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement.
 
30. Termination by Consent
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 29 [Term], this Agreement may be terminated with the written consent of each of the Parties.
 
31. Incorporation of Miscellaneous Terms
 
The terms set forth on attached hereto are incorporated by reference and shall apply to this Agreement (including each of the exhibits and other schedules hereto); provided, however, that the section of Schedule A on Consequential Damages shall not apply (i) to the indemnity obligations of the Gas Parties to the Coal Parties against any Claim(s) set forth in Section 3.3.2 [Subsidence of Systems; Indemnity], in Section 4 [Stimulation], and in Section 20.1 [General Indemnity], (ii) to the indemnity obligations of the Coal Parties to the Gas Parties against any Claim(s) set forth in Section 20.1 [General Indemnity] and Section 20.2 [Indemnity with Respect to Certain Leased Gas Rights] or (iii) to the determination of the reimbursement due under 3.2.5 [Coal Parties Pay for Loss of Non-Coal Area Gas Assets due to Mine-Through] (i.e., NPV and the other items to be calculated described in the General Guidelines of Schedule 3 attached hereto shall be determined without regard to the limitations set forth in the Consequential Damages section of Schedule A).
Schedule A
 
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
 
Each of the undersigned subsidiaries of , intending to be legally bound, hereby joins and agrees to be bound by and assumes all of the obligations under the terms of this Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement as though such subsidiary was for "CONSOL Energy Inc."
CONSOL Energy Inc.
 
 
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement
 
 
 
 
Each of the undersigned subsidiaries of intending to be legally bound, hereby joins and agrees to be bound by and assumes all of the obligations under the terms of this Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement as though such subsidiary was for "CNX Gas Corporation."
CNX Gas Corporation
 
 
 
 
The term "Agreement" shall refer to the agreement to which this Schedule A is attached. Other capitalized terms used in this Schedule and not defined in this Schedule, shall (i) have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Separation Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005, and (ii) if not defined in the Master Separation Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005. To the extent that there is any conflict between any provision of this Schedule and any provision set forth in the body of this Agreement, the provision set forth in the body of this Agreement shall control.
 
. The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
A.
Governing Law
 
. Except as it relates to any committee-based dispute resolution and the arbitration and/or mediation provisions set forth herein (or therein with regard to documents relating to this Agreement), the parties hereby expressly and irrevocably (a) agree that any suit, action, proceeding or dispute arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement (the "Litigation") or any documents relating hereto shall be brought in and only in the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, (b) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the Litigation, (c) waive any claim or defense of lack of personal jurisdiction and of inconvenient forum or venue, (d) consent that any process or notice of motion or other application to the court or judge thereof, may be served outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by registered mail, by personal service, or by any other manner prescribed by law, and (e) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
B.
Jurisdiction and Forum Selection
 
. Each party giving any notice (a "Notice") required or permitted under this Agreement will give the Notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Schedule: (a) by telephone; or (b) in writing (which includes means of electronic transmission (i.e., "e-mail") or facsimile transmission). Any Notice shall be effective: (1) in the case of hand-delivery, when delivered; (2) if given by mail, four days after such Notice is deposited with the United States Postal Service, with first-class postage prepaid, return receipt requested; (3) in the case of a telephonic Notice, when a party is contacted by telephone, if delivery of such telephonic Notice is confirmed no later than the next day on which the party receiving the notice is open for business by hand delivery, a facsimile or electronic transmission, or overnight courier delivery of a confirmatory notice (received at or before noon on such next business day); (4) in the case of a facsimile transmission, when sent to the applicable
C.
Notices
party's facsimile machine's telephone number if the party sending such Notice receives confirmation of the delivery thereof from its own facsimile machine; (5) in the case of electronic transmission, when actually received; and (6) if given by any other means (including by overnight courier), when actually received. Until further notice, as provided above, addresses for Notices shall be:
 
If to CONSOL Energy
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (412) 831-4930
E-mail: JerryRichey@consolenergy.com
 
If to GasCo:
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile: (412) 831-4412
E-mail: NickDeIuliis@cnxgas.com
 
. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of CEI and CNX, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, CEI may assign this Agreement in connection with (a) a merger transaction in which CEI is not the surviving entity or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
D.
Binding Effect and Assignment
 
. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.
E.
Severability
 
. This Agreement, together with the other Ancillary Agreements and each of the exhibits and schedules appended hereto and thereto, constitutes the final agreement between the parties, and is the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement on the matters contained herein and therein. In the event of any reorganization, insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding (including any proceeding under 11 U.S.C.  101, et. seq. or any successor thereto) of a party, such party may not assume (pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  365 or any successor provision thereto) this Agreement unless such party also assumes all of the other Ancillary Agreements. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and therein are superseded by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, as applicable.
F.
Entire Agreement
. The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or e-mail transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
G.
Counterparts
 
. CNX will be responsible for the payment of the discount and placement fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the one percent financial advisory fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement and for all other expenses of the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the payment of all costs, fees and expenses relating to the Distribution.
H.
Certain Expenses
 
. The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of the parties that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
I.
Amendment
 
. No course of dealing and no delay or failure of any party in exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege under this Agreement shall affect any other or future exercise thereof or operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties under this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. Any waiver, permission, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing.
J.
Waiver
 
. Each of the parties represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and (d) this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
K.
Authority
 
.
L.
Construction of Agreement
 
(a) Any reference in this Agreement to the singular includes the plural where appropriate. Any reference in this Agreement to the masculine, feminine or neuter
gender includes the other genders where appropriate. For purposes of this Agreement, after the Effective Date the Gas Operations, as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement, will be deemed to be the business of GasCo.
 
(b) Any captions, titles and headings, and any table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
 
(c) Language used in this Agreement is and shall be deemed language mutually chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party.
 
(d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and does not, and is not intended to, confer any rights or remedies in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of CONSOL Energy or GasCo) other than the parties signing this Agreement.
 
(e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
 
(f) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
 
(g) Unless otherwise expressly specified, all references in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means United States Dollars.
 
. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, to the extent it has any interest in any oil and/or gas mineral rights and to the extent not prohibited by any obligation binding at the time of formation or acquisition, each Subsidiary of CEI and CNX formed or acquired after the date of this Agreement shall promptly join in this Agreement (and all related documents, agreements and instruments as necessary or proper to effectuate the intent of this Agreement). In no event shall such joinder be later than 30 days following (i) if such Subsidiary is newly formed, the date of the filing of such Subsidiary's articles of incorporation if the Subsidiary is a corporation, the date of the filing of its certificate of limited partnership if it is a limited partnership or the date of its organization if it is an entity other than a limited partnership or corporation, or (ii) if such Subsidiary is an existing Person newly acquired, the date of the closing of the transaction constituting such acquisition.
M.
Joinder of Subsidiaries
 
. A bi-partisan committee (the "Committee") is hereby established to resolve Disputes. In all circumstances, the Committee shall act in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
N.
Dispute Resolution
 
(a) Membership of the Committee.
The Committee shall be composed of eight (8) members. Four (4) shall be appointed by CEI and four (4) shall be appointed by CNX. Committee members need not be employees of CONSOL Energy or GasCo. While not required, it is recommended that Committee members should have expertise in the following areas: safety, land, engineering and law. CONSOL Energy as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CEI as its voting representative (the ""). GasCo as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CNX (provided that so long as CNX remains a Subsidiary of CEI, a majority of the independent members of CNX's Board of Directors must have approved this designated Committee member) as its voting representative (the ""). Each of CEI and CNX may appoint alternate members, including one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CEI and one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CNX, who may act without notice to the other Parties when regular members are not available. Each of CEI and CNX shall have the right to change its members, including the CEI Rep and the GasCo Rep, or alternates at any time by notifying the other Parties in writing of such change. One of CEI's members shall be the first chairman of the Committee for a period of two (2) years commencing on the date of this Agreement, after which the chairmanship shall alternate between CEI and CNX annually. All Disputes coming before the Committee shall be decided by a unanimous vote.
CEI Rep
CNX Rep
 
(b) Committee Authority.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve any Dispute.
 
(c) Committee Meetings and Procedures
 
The Committee shall meet as needed to resolve Disputes. Either CEI or CNX may call a meeting of the Committee by giving not less than ten (10) days notice in writing to the other Party specifying the matters to be considered. Meetings shall be held in such locations as the CEI Rep and GasCo Rep shall agree. In the event that the CEI Rep and CNX Rep cannot agree on a meeting location, the location shall be at CEI's principal executive offices. A written record of each meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the Committee chairman with copies distributed to each of CEI and CNX as soon as possible after the meeting.
 
(d) Actions Without a Meeting.
 
Any Dispute subject to Committee jurisdiction may be submitted in writing, or by telephone confirmed in writing, to the Committee for consideration and vote without holding a meeting. For any Dispute so submitted, each of the CEI Rep and the CNX Rep shall vote by giving written notice, or by telephone confirmed in writing, of its vote not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice of such Dispute. Failure to respond shall be deemed a negative vote on such matter.
(e) Dispute Resolution.
 
Any Dispute must first be submitted to the Committee for resolution before any party may invoke mediation, arbitration or Litigation of the Dispute.
 
(f) Mediation
 
In the event that the Committee is unable to resolve a Dispute within 30 days of submission to it, CONSOL Energy and GasCo agree first to try in good faith to settle the Dispute by mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Mediation Rules before resorting to arbitration as set forth below; , , that any such Dispute shall be submitted to arbitration as set forth below if such Dispute is not settled within 60 days of the date on which the Dispute was first subject to mediation proceedings. Nothing in this section will prevent either CONSOL Energy or GasCo from commencing Litigation seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay could result in irreparable injury to either CONSOL Energy or GasCo. In the event that such Litigation seeking injunction or similar relief is initiated (the "Litigation Action"), mediation as set forth in this section shall nevertheless proceed concurrently with the Litigation Action. The Litigation Action shall be limited to seeking preliminary relief. Any adjudication of the merits shall be pursuant to the arbitration clause of this section.
provided
however
 
(g) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, CONSOL Energy and GasCo are the only parties entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement.
 
(h) Arbitration.
 
Any Dispute not settled by the Committee or by mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including the Emergency Interim Relief Procedures, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Within 15 days after the commencement of arbitration, CONSOL Energy and the GasCo shall each select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within 10 days of their appointment; , , that such third arbitrator shall (a) be independent of both parties and (b) have knowledge of mining operations and Gas production. All arbitrators shall be neutral arbitrators. If the two arbitrators selected are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the American Arbitration Association. The place of arbitration shall be Pittsburgh, PA. The award of the arbitrators shall be final and not subject to appeal.
provided
however
 
O. Consequential Damages.
 
UNLESS EXPRESSLY AND EXPLICITLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO THIS SECTION BEING
INAPPLICABLE, IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES (COLLECTIVELY, ), HOWEVER CAUSED BASED UPON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY; , , THAT TO THE EXTENT AN INDEMNIFIED PARTY IS REQUIRED TO PAY ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH SUCH INDEMNIFIED PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH A THIRD PARTY CLAIM, THE AMOUNT OF SUCH DAMAGES PAID BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY ON SUCH THIRD PARTY CLAIM WILL CONSTITUTE DIRECT DAMAGES AND SHALL NOT BE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 0.
"CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES"
PROVIDED
HOWEVER

Exhibit 10.71
 
Execution Copy
 
 
This SERVICES AGREEMENT (this "") is entered into as of this 1st day of August, 2005 by and among (a) CONSOL Energy Inc. (), a Delaware corporation, and CNX Land Resources Inc., a Delaware corporation and subsidiary of CEI (CEI and CNX Land Resources Inc. are collectively referred to as ), and (b) CNX Gas Corporation (""), a Delaware corporation and its subsidiaries which are or become parties to this Agreement (CNX and such subsidiaries are collectively referred to as , and together with CONSOL Energy, collectively, the "" and each individually a "").
Agreement
"CEI"
"CONSOL Energy"
CNX
"GasCo"
Parties
Party
 
 
 
 
Now therefore, for and in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, the Parties agree as follows:
 
1. Services
 
During the Term of this Agreement CONSOL Energy shall provide (or shall cause one or more third parties to provide) to GasCo services consistent with past practices, including, without limitation: cash management and debt service administration; accounting and tax; internal audit; investor relations; payroll and human resource administration; legal; information technology; real estate management; and such expanded or other administrative services as may be agreed from time to time (each individually, a "", and together, collectively, the "").
Service
Services
 
2. Charge for Services
 
CNX shall compensate CEI monthly for the provision of Services at CONSOL Energy's cost of providing the Services, including all direct and indirect administrative and overhead charges allocated in accordance with CONSOL Energy's regular and consistent accounting practices. Upon request, CONSOL Energy shall provide CNX with financial reports sufficient to permit verification of CONSOL Energy's costs. Charges shall be calculated and invoiced by the 20
th
day of month following the end of the month and payment shall be due not later than 10 days following the invoice date.
Services Agreement
 
3. Authorization
 
GasCo appoints CEI, its officers, employees and agents, or any of them, as agents for CNX to take all actions necessary or appropriate to perform the Services. To the extent the Parties remain part of a consolidated group as determined by GAAP, CNX and CEI agree that, in connection with the provision of Services, any officer of CEI is authorized to take any action on behalf of GasCo under the same authorities and limitations that would apply to his or her actions as an officer of CEI based upon General Authority Limitations or similar document then in force and effect at CEI; GasCo shall execute such other instruments and take such further action as may be required in order to effectuate the foregoing authorization. GasCo expressly waives any defense of lack of authorization it might assert against CEI or any third party as to any transaction entered into on its behalf by CEI or any of its officers, employees or agents under the terms of this paragraph.
 
4. Termination
 
This Agreement shall continue in effect until such time as it is terminated by CEI or CNX. CEI or CNX Gas may terminate any Service or this Agreement upon 90 days prior written notice to the other Party, following which CONSOL Energy's obligation to provide the subject Service(s) hereunder shall terminate.
 
5. Independent Contractor Status
 
CONSOL Energy shall perform the Services according to its own means and methods and shall be an independent contractor. All persons employed by CONSOL Energy shall be (a) CONSOL Energy's employees or third-party independent contractors subject to CONSOL Energy's orders and supervision and (b) paid directly by CONSOL Energy.
 
CONSOL Energy shall withhold and pay any contribution measured by wages of its employees required by the Federal Insurance Corporation Act and all other contributions, taxes and other charges required to be withheld or paid pursuant to any state or federal statute and shall accept exclusive liability therefore.
 
6. Taxes
 
In addition to other sums payable under this Agreement, CONSOL Energy may bill to CNX, as part of any monthly invoice, the amount of any and all federal, state or local taxes (including any tax payable on amounts to be paid by CONSOL Energy pursuant to this sentence) that may be due and payable based on receipts received by CONSOL Energy for the provision of Services, including, without limitation, any gross receipts or sales tax, but excluding federal and state income tax imposed on CONSOL Energy's overall net income.
 
7. Prior Understandings; Incorporation by Reference
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, between the Parties relating to the transactions provided for herein, including any prior confidentiality agreements and commitments. The Master Separation Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements are incorporated by reference herein; , , that to the extent that there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Master Separation Agreement or other Ancillary Agreements, the terms of this Agreement shall control the provision of Services.
provided
however
 
Services Agreement
 
8. Confidentiality
 
Confidentiality of information shall be governed by Article 5 [Access to Information] of the Master Separation Agreement. If the Master Separation Agreement shall have been terminated and three years have elapsed since its termination (resulting in Article 5 other than Section 5.8 no longer being in effect), then the following shall become applicable: Each Party shall keep confidential all information obtained from any other Party in connection with the provision of Services to the extent such information is nonpublic and confidential or proprietary in nature (including any information any Party specifically designates as confidential), except as provided below, and use such information only in connection with their respective capacities under this Agreement and for the purposes contemplated hereby. Each Party shall be permitted to disclose such information (i) to outside legal counsel, accountants and other professional advisors who need to know such information in connection with the administration and enforcement of this Agreement, subject to agreement of such persons to maintain the confidentiality, (ii) to the extent required by applicable law or by any subpoena or similar legal process, or in connection with any investigation or proceeding arising out of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (iii) if it becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement or becomes available from a source not known to be subject to confidentiality restrictions, (iv) in connection with the exercise, preservation or protection of any right or remedy hereunder, applicable law or equity or (v) if the other party shall have consented to such disclosure. Notwithstanding the foregoing, CEI shall be entitled to disclose any nonpublic and confidential or proprietary information concerning CNX to third parties in connection with any proposed transaction involving CEI's direct or indirect ownership interest in CNX, subject to agreement of such third parties to maintain the confidentiality of such information.
 
9. No Warranty; Limitation of Liability
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, GasCo agrees and acknowledges that CONSOL Energy's total liability and GasCo's exclusive remedy, regardless of the legal theory asserted, concerning the provision of Services, shall be limited to the total price paid by CNX for said Services, and in no event shall CONSOL Energy be liable to GasCo or any entity or person asserting claims on their behalf, for consequential, indirect, incidental or special damages of any nature, including but not limited to lost profits or business interruption damages. OTHER THAN AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH HEREIN, CONSOL ENERGY MAKES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WHETHER ARISING BY OPERATION OF LAW, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE OR DEALING, CUSTOM, USAGE IN TRADE OR PROFESSION OR OTHERWISE, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY, NONINFRINGEMENT OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 
10. Incorporation of Miscellaneous Terms
 
The terms set forth on attached hereto are incorporated by reference and shall apply to this Agreement (including each of the exhibits and other schedules hereto). Other than CNX Land Resources Inc., which is a Party to this Agreement, the subsidiaries of CEI shall not join this Agreement.
Schedule A
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Services Agreement as of the date first set forth above.
 
 
The term "Agreement" shall refer to the agreement to which this Schedule A is attached. Other capitalized terms used in this Schedule and not defined in this Schedule, shall (i) have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Separation Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005, and (ii) if not defined in the Master Separation Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005. To the extent that there is any conflict between any provision of this Schedule and any provision set forth in the body of this Agreement, the provision set forth in the body of this Agreement shall control.
 
. The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
A.
Governing Law
 
. Except as it relates to any committee-based dispute resolution and the arbitration and/or mediation provisions set forth herein (or therein with regard to documents relating to this Agreement), the parties hereby expressly and irrevocably (a) agree that any suit, action, proceeding or dispute arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement (the "Litigation") or any documents relating hereto shall be brought in and only in the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, (b) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the Litigation, (c) waive any claim or defense of lack of personal jurisdiction and of inconvenient forum or venue, (d) consent that any process or notice of motion or other application to the court or judge thereof, may be served outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by registered mail, by personal service, or by any other manner prescribed by law, and (e) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
B.
Jurisdiction and Forum Selection
 
. Each party giving any notice (a "Notice") required or permitted under this Agreement will give the Notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Schedule: (a) by telephone; or (b) in writing (which includes means of electronic transmission (i.e., "e-mail") or facsimile transmission). Any Notice shall be effective: (1) in the case of hand-delivery, when delivered; (2) if given by mail, four days after such Notice is deposited with the United States Postal Service, with first-class postage prepaid, return receipt requested; (3) in the case of a telephonic Notice, when a party is contacted by telephone, if delivery of such telephonic Notice is confirmed no later than the next day on which the party receiving the notice is open for business by hand delivery, a facsimile or electronic transmission, or overnight courier delivery of a confirmatory notice (received at or before noon on such next business day); (4) in the case of a facsimile transmission, when sent to the applicable
C.
Notices
party's facsimile machine's telephone number if the party sending such Notice receives confirmation of the delivery thereof from its own facsimile machine; (5) in the case of electronic transmission, when actually received; and (6) if given by any other means (including by overnight courier), when actually received. Until further notice, as provided above, addresses for Notices shall be:
 
If to CONSOL Energy
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (412) 831-4930
E-mail: JerryRichey@consolenergy.com
 
If to GasCo:
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile: (412) 831-4412
E-mail: NickDeIuliis@cnxgas.com
 
. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of CEI and CNX, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, CEI may assign this Agreement in connection with (a) a merger transaction in which CEI is not the surviving entity or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
D.
Binding Effect and Assignment
 
. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.
E.
Severability
 
. This Agreement, together with the other Ancillary Agreements and each of the exhibits and schedules appended hereto and thereto, constitutes the final agreement between the parties, and is the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement on the matters contained herein and therein. In the event of any reorganization, insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding (including any proceeding under 11 U.S.C.  101, et. seq. or any successor thereto) of a party, such party may not assume (pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  365 or any successor provision thereto) this Agreement unless such party also assumes all of the other Ancillary Agreements. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and therein are superseded by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, as applicable.
F.
Entire Agreement
. The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or e-mail transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
G.
Counterparts
 
. CNX will be responsible for the payment of the discount and placement fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the one percent financial advisory fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement and for all other expenses of the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the payment of all costs, fees and expenses relating to the Distribution.
H.
Certain Expenses
 
. The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of the parties that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
I.
Amendment
 
. No course of dealing and no delay or failure of any party in exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege under this Agreement shall affect any other or future exercise thereof or operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties under this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. Any waiver, permission, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing.
J.
Waiver
 
. Each of the parties represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and (d) this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
K.
Authority
 
.
L.
Construction of Agreement
 
(a) Any reference in this Agreement to the singular includes the plural where appropriate. Any reference in this Agreement to the masculine, feminine or neuter
gender includes the other genders where appropriate. For purposes of this Agreement, after the Effective Date the Gas Operations, as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement, will be deemed to be the business of GasCo.
 
(b) Any captions, titles and headings, and any table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
 
(c) Language used in this Agreement is and shall be deemed language mutually chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party.
 
(d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and does not, and is not intended to, confer any rights or remedies in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of CONSOL Energy or GasCo) other than the parties signing this Agreement.
 
(e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
 
(f) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
 
(g) Unless otherwise expressly specified, all references in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means United States Dollars.
 
. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, to the extent it has any interest in any oil and/or gas mineral rights and to the extent not prohibited by any obligation binding at the time of formation or acquisition, each Subsidiary of CEI and CNX formed or acquired after the date of this Agreement shall promptly join in this Agreement (and all related documents, agreements and instruments as necessary or proper to effectuate the intent of this Agreement). In no event shall such joinder be later than 30 days following (i) if such Subsidiary is newly formed, the date of the filing of such Subsidiary's articles of incorporation if the Subsidiary is a corporation, the date of the filing of its certificate of limited partnership if it is a limited partnership or the date of its organization if it is an entity other than a limited partnership or corporation, or (ii) if such Subsidiary is an existing Person newly acquired, the date of the closing of the transaction constituting such acquisition.
M.
Joinder of Subsidiaries
 
. A bi-partisan committee (the "Committee") is hereby established to resolve Disputes. In all circumstances, the Committee shall act in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
N.
Dispute Resolution
 
(a) Membership of the Committee.
The Committee shall be composed of eight (8) members. Four (4) shall be appointed by CEI and four (4) shall be appointed by CNX. Committee members need not be employees of CONSOL Energy or GasCo. While not required, it is recommended that Committee members should have expertise in the following areas: safety, land, engineering and law. CONSOL Energy as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CEI as its voting representative (the ""). GasCo as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CNX (provided that so long as CNX remains a Subsidiary of CEI, a majority of the independent members of CNX's Board of Directors must have approved this designated Committee member) as its voting representative (the ""). Each of CEI and CNX may appoint alternate members, including one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CEI and one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CNX, who may act without notice to the other Parties when regular members are not available. Each of CEI and CNX shall have the right to change its members, including the CEI Rep and the GasCo Rep, or alternates at any time by notifying the other Parties in writing of such change. One of CEI's members shall be the first chairman of the Committee for a period of two (2) years commencing on the date of this Agreement, after which the chairmanship shall alternate between CEI and CNX annually. All Disputes coming before the Committee shall be decided by a unanimous vote.
CEI Rep
CNX Rep
 
(b) Committee Authority.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve any Dispute.
 
(c) Committee Meetings and Procedures
 
The Committee shall meet as needed to resolve Disputes. Either CEI or CNX may call a meeting of the Committee by giving not less than ten (10) days notice in writing to the other Party specifying the matters to be considered. Meetings shall be held in such locations as the CEI Rep and GasCo Rep shall agree. In the event that the CEI Rep and CNX Rep cannot agree on a meeting location, the location shall be at CEI's principal executive offices. A written record of each meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the Committee chairman with copies distributed to each of CEI and CNX as soon as possible after the meeting.
 
(d) Actions Without a Meeting.
 
Any Dispute subject to Committee jurisdiction may be submitted in writing, or by telephone confirmed in writing, to the Committee for consideration and vote without holding a meeting. For any Dispute so submitted, each of the CEI Rep and the CNX Rep shall vote by giving written notice, or by telephone confirmed in writing, of its vote not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice of such Dispute. Failure to respond shall be deemed a negative vote on such matter.
(e) Dispute Resolution.
 
Any Dispute must first be submitted to the Committee for resolution before any party may invoke mediation, arbitration or Litigation of the Dispute.
 
(f) Mediation
 
In the event that the Committee is unable to resolve a Dispute within 30 days of submission to it, CONSOL Energy and GasCo agree first to try in good faith to settle the Dispute by mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Mediation Rules before resorting to arbitration as set forth below; , , that any such Dispute shall be submitted to arbitration as set forth below if such Dispute is not settled within 60 days of the date on which the Dispute was first subject to mediation proceedings. Nothing in this section will prevent either CONSOL Energy or GasCo from commencing Litigation seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay could result in irreparable injury to either CONSOL Energy or GasCo. In the event that such Litigation seeking injunction or similar relief is initiated (the "Litigation Action"), mediation as set forth in this section shall nevertheless proceed concurrently with the Litigation Action. The Litigation Action shall be limited to seeking preliminary relief. Any adjudication of the merits shall be pursuant to the arbitration clause of this section.
provided
however
 
(g) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, CONSOL Energy and GasCo are the only parties entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement.
 
(h) Arbitration.
 
Any Dispute not settled by the Committee or by mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including the Emergency Interim Relief Procedures, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Within 15 days after the commencement of arbitration, CONSOL Energy and the GasCo shall each select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within 10 days of their appointment; , , that such third arbitrator shall (a) be independent of both parties and (b) have knowledge of mining operations and Gas production. All arbitrators shall be neutral arbitrators. If the two arbitrators selected are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the American Arbitration Association. The place of arbitration shall be Pittsburgh, PA. The award of the arbitrators shall be final and not subject to appeal.
provided
however
 
O. Consequential Damages.
 
UNLESS EXPRESSLY AND EXPLICITLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO THIS SECTION BEING
INAPPLICABLE, IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES (COLLECTIVELY, ), HOWEVER CAUSED BASED UPON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY; , , THAT TO THE EXTENT AN INDEMNIFIED PARTY IS REQUIRED TO PAY ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH SUCH INDEMNIFIED PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH A THIRD PARTY CLAIM, THE AMOUNT OF SUCH DAMAGES PAID BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY ON SUCH THIRD PARTY CLAIM WILL CONSTITUTE DIRECT DAMAGES AND SHALL NOT BE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 0.
"CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES"
PROVIDED
HOWEVER

Exhibit 10.72
 
Execution Copy
 
 
This TAX SHARING AGREEMENT, made as of this 1st day of August, 2005 (this ""), by and among CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and CNX Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("").
Agreement
Parent
Gasco
 
 
 
 
 
Now therefore, for and in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound, each of Parent and Gasco agree as follows:
 
1. Definitions
 
As used herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.
Adjustment
 
shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.
Deconsolidation
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Federal Group Consolidated Return
 
shall mean the taxes imposed by Sections 11, 55 and 59A of the Code (or any successor provisions), as well as any penalties, additions to tax and interest imposed with respect thereto.
Federal Income Taxes
 
means CNX Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation.
Gasco
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.
Gasco Items
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.
Gasco Stand-Alone Attribute
 
shall mean the group of corporations consisting of Gasco and all corporations which would constitute an affiliated group (within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code) of which Gasco was the common parent corporation were it not for the fact that Gasco is a member of the Group.
Gasco Subgroup
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.
Group Consolidated Return
 
shall mean the affiliated group (within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code) of which Parent is the common parent corporation.
Group
 
shall mean CONSOL Energy Inc. a Delaware corporation.
Parent
 
shall mean any taxable year which ends after a Deconsolidation.
Post-Deconsolidation Year
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.
Pre-Agreement Year
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.
Records
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.
Spin-Off
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.
Stand-Alone Tax Liability
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.
State Group Consolidated or Combined Return
 
shall mean any tax imposed by the various states or commonwealths wherein Gasco or any member of a Gasco Subgroup has a taxable presence or may be required to share in the combined tax return filed by Parent.
State Income Tax
 
2. Filing of Consolidated United States Federal and State Income Tax Returns
 
For each taxable year in which Gasco is a member of the Group, the Group (a) shall file consolidated Federal income tax returns ("") and Gasco hereby consents to join in such Federal Group Consolidated Returns, and (b) may be required to file certain consolidated or combined State Income Tax returns ("" and together with the Federal Group Consolidated Returns, collectively, the "") and Gasco hereby consents to join in such State Group Consolidated or Combined Returns. The Parent, on behalf of the Group, shall prepare and file such Group Consolidated Returns, and shall make all remittances of Federal Income Tax and State Income Tax (including estimated tax), as required by law. Parent shall, in its sole discretion, have exclusive control over the preparation and filing of Group Consolidated Returns (including, without limitation, making any elections with respect thereto, providing, however, that any election that affects only Gasco shall be made, after consultation with Gasco, in a manner that is reasonable and fair to Gasco).
Federal Group Consolidated Returns
State Group Consolidated or Combined Returns
Group Consolidated Returns
 
3. State and Other Tax Reporting
 
In the event consolidated, combined or similar reporting is available but not required for purposes of state income taxation, Parent, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether to report in such manner. In the event that such a consolidated or combined tax return is filed, Gasco's share of consolidated or
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
combined tax liability shall be determined, and payments with respect thereto, shall be made in accordance with the principles of this Agreement. If consolidated or combined reporting is not available, or is not used, with respect to any tax, Gasco agrees to file such returns or reports, and to pay such amounts of tax, at the time, and in the manner, required by law.
 
4. Sharing of Information; Cooperation
 
(a) Parent and Gasco shall cooperate fully in the determination of the amount of estimated tax payments, the preparation and filing of Group Consolidated Returns, tax planning, determination of appropriate reserves for current and deferred taxes and the administration of the Group's tax matters, including executing any consents or other documents, providing Parent with all information, and providing Parent with access to any records, that are necessary in connection with such determination, preparation, filing, planning or administration, or with any audit or examination, or which are reasonably requested by Parent in connection therewith.
 
5. Payments By Gasco
 
Each year, at the times and in the manner set forth in Section 7, Gasco shall make payments in an amount equal to Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability. For purposes of this Agreement, the "" of Gasco shall be the amount (but not below zero) of Federal Income Tax and State Income Tax liability (in those cases where Gasco joined in the filing of a State Group Consolidated or Combined Return with the Group), which Gasco would have incurred had it filed a separate Federal Income Tax or State Income Tax return for all years subject to this Agreement (as provided in Section 9), , , that the determination of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability shall not take into account any deduction or other tax benefit attributable to the exercise of an option to purchase Parent stock by an employee of Gasco. The determination of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability shall be made in a manner that reflects all elections, positions, and methods used in the Group Consolidated Return as actually filed (or will be filed) and otherwise shall be prepared in a manner consistent with such Group Consolidated Return. The determination of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability shall reflect any carryovers of net operating losses, net capital losses, excess tax credits, or other tax attributes from prior years subject to this Agreement which could have been utilized by Gasco (excluding, however, those attributes utilized on a Group Consolidated Return for which a payment was made by Parent to Gasco pursuant to Section 6 hereof) if Gasco had never been included in the Group and Gasco had actually filed separate returns (prepared in a manner consistent with that set forth in this Section 5 for determining Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability), but shall not reflect any tax benefits that arise from any adjustment to a Pre-Agreement Year or carryovers of any tax attributes from a Pre-Agreement Year, regardless of whether such attributes were utilized (on audit or otherwise) on a tax return of Parent in a Pre-Agreement Year, , , that in the case of any limitations on the use of net operating losses, credits or other tax attributes which, in the Group Consolidated Return as actually filed, are determined on a consolidated basis (such as the foreign tax credit limitation) or by taking into account items related to persons other than the member which generated such tax attribute (such as the limitation on the deductibility of interest expense under Code 163(j)), Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability shall be determined based on the actual amount of such limitations in the Group Consolidated Return as filed, and not by recalculating such limitations as though separate Federal income tax returns were filed. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "credit" or "tax credit" shall not include any credit for amounts of tax previously paid.
Stand-Alone Tax Liability
provided
however
provided
however
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
6. Use of Net Operating Losses or Credits
 
If, for a taxable year subject to this Agreement, a calculation of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability in accordance with the principles of Section 5 results in a net operating loss, net capital loss, excess tax credit or other tax attribute (a ""), which is actually utilized in a Group Consolidated Return (including any amendments thereto), then, within 30 days after the later of (i) the due date for the Group Consolidated Return (taking into account any extensions thereof) or (ii) the date such Gasco Stand-Alone Attribute is actually realized in cash (whether directly or by offset), Parent shall pay to Gasco an amount equal to the lesser of (x) the refund which Gasco would have received as a result of the carryback of such Gasco Stand-Alone Attribute to any prior year or years (determined as if such attributes could not be carried back to any year prior to the earliest year subject to this Agreement) or (y) the tax savings or tax benefit realized by Parent with respect to the use of such Gasco Stand-Alone Attribute in a Group Consolidated Return. All calculations of deemed refunds pursuant to this Section 6 shall include interest computed as if Gasco had filed a claim for refund or an application for a tentative carryback adjustment pursuant to Section 6411(a) of the Code on the date on which the Group Consolidated Return is filed.
Gasco Stand-Alone Attribute
 
7. Timing and Manner of Payments
 
At least 5 business days before each quarterly payment of estimated Federal Income Tax or State Income Tax is due on behalf of the Group, Gasco shall provide to Parent an estimate of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability and any other information reasonably necessary to determine the amount of Gasco's share of such quarterly payment, based on a reasonable estimate in accordance with the principles of Section 5, and shall pay such amount to Parent.
(a)
 
No later than 5 business days before the due date (taking into account extensions) of the Federal Group Consolidated Return or any State Group Consolidated or Combined Return for each taxable year, Gasco shall (i) determine its Stand-Alone Tax Liability for such year, (ii) shall notify Parent of such amount, and (iii) provide information to Parent as is reasonably necessary to verify such amount. To the extent such amount exceeds the amounts previously paid by Gasco pursuant to Section 7(a) for such year, Gasco shall, together with such notice, pay the difference to Parent. To the extent the amount of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability for a year is less than the amount previously paid by Gasco pursuant to Section 7(a) for such year, Parent shall, within 5 business days of such notice, refund the difference to Gasco.
(b)
 
In the event Parent shall dispute Gasco's calculation of any payments due under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section 7, Parent shall promptly so notify Gasco, and the parties shall jointly attempt to resolve such dispute. In the event the parties are unable to resolve such dispute within 10 days, the matter shall be referred to a nationally recognized accounting firm, selected by Parent and reasonably acceptable to Gasco, for resolution. The fees of such accounting firm shall be borne one-half by Parent and one-half by Gasco. Upon resolution of a dispute (whether by agreement of the parties or by the accounting firm) appropriate payments shall promptly be made to reflect such resolution.
(c)
 
Any amounts due under this Agreement which are not paid when due shall bear interest at a rate equal to the rate, as in effect from time to time, applicable to underpayment
(d)
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
of Federal Income Tax, plus one percentage point. In addition, if, as a result of Gasco's failure to make any payments when due under this Agreement, or other failure to comply with the terms of this Agreement, Parent incurs any penalty or addition to tax, Gasco shall promptly reimburse Parent for such penalty or addition to tax.
 
8. Indemnification
 
Provided that Gasco has fully complied with all of its obligations under this Agreement, Parent agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Gasco from and against any Federal Income Tax and any State Income Tax liability in excess of amounts which Gasco is required to pay under this Agreement. Parent agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Gasco, and Gasco agrees to indemnify and hold harmless Parent and each other member of the Group from and against any damages arising from any breach by Parent or Gasco of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
 
9. Years to Which This Agreement Applies
 
This Agreement shall apply to taxable years ending on or after the date hereof. Any taxable year of Gasco prior to the years to which this Agreement applies is referred to herein as a "."
Pre-Agreement Year
 
10. Redetermination of Tax Liability
 
In the event the Internal Revenue Service or any state or commonwealth seeks to redetermine the Group's consolidated Federal Income Tax or State Income Tax liability (as applicable) for a taxable year, Parent shall have, except as provided in Section 10(b) below, complete control of any examination or other proceeding with respect to such redetermination (including, without limitation, whether to contest any proposed adjustment, and the form in which any such contest shall be adjudicated. Gasco shall assist and cooperate with Parent during the course of any proceedings related to a proposed redetermination or contest thereof.
(a)
 
Parent shall give Gasco notice of and consult with Gasco with respect to any issues relating to items of income, gain, loss, deduction or credit of Gasco (""). Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 10(a), Parent shall delegate to Gasco full responsibility for conducting an examination or other proceeding, or the portions of an examination or other proceeding, which relate solely to Gasco's tax liability. Parent shall not settle or otherwise compromise any Gasco Item that would result in additional liability for Gasco under this Agreement without the written consent of Gasco, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(b)
Gasco Items
 
In the event Parent, in its sole discretion, decides to contest any proposed redetermination of any Gasco Item by paying additional tax and seeking a refund, Parent shall so notify Gasco, and, within 5 days of such notice, Gasco shall pay to Parent an amount equal to the amount by which Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability would be increased if such Gasco items were determined adversely.
(c)
 
Gasco shall reimburse Parent for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses (including, without limitation, legal, consulting and accounting fees) in the course of proceedings described in this Section 10 to the extent such expenses are reasonably attributable to Gasco Items.
(d)
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
To the extent that any audit, litigation or claim for refund with respect to a Group Consolidated Return results in an additional payment of tax (including a payment of tax made preliminary to commencing a refund claim or litigation) or a refund of tax (any such additional payment or refund, an "") relating to the treatment of a Gasco Item for an Agreement Year, Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability for such year shall be recalculated to reflect such adjustment. Within 5 days after any such Adjustment, Gasco or Parent, as appropriate, shall make additional payments or refund payments to the other party reflecting such Adjustment, plus interest pursuant to Section 7(d) of this Agreement, calculated as if payments by and to Gasco pursuant to Sections 5 and 6 of this Agreement and this Section 10 were payments and refunds of Federal Income Taxes or State Income Taxes. Gasco shall further pay to Parent the amount of any penalties or additions to tax incurred by the Group as a result of an adjustment to any Gasco Item for an Agreement Year.
(e)
Adjustment
 
11. Document Retention, Access to Records and Use of Personnel
 
Until the expiration of the relevant statute of limitations (including extensions), Gasco and Parent shall (i) retain records, documents, accounting data, computer data and other information (collectively, the "") necessary for the preparation, filing, review, audit or defense of all tax returns relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under the Agreement; and (ii) give Parent or Gasco, as the case may be, reasonable access to such Records held by the other party and to its personnel (insuring their cooperation) and premises to the extent relevant to an obligation, right or liability of either party under this Agreement. Prior to disposing of any such Records, Parent and Gasco, as the case may be, shall notify the other party in writing of such intention and afford the other party the opportunity to take possession or make copies of such Records at its discretion and expense.
Records
 
12. Application to Gasco Subgroup
 
If, for any taxable year, there exists a Gasco Subgroup, such Gasco Subgroup shall be treated as a single corporation insofar as its rights and obligations vis  vis Parent are concerned. Accordingly, for a year in which a Gasco Subgroup exists, (i) all references herein to Gasco shall apply to the Gasco Subgroup, (ii) the computation of Gasco's Stand-Alone Tax Liability under Section 5 shall be made as though all members of the Gasco Subgroup filed a consolidated Federal Income Tax or State Income Tax return (as applicable) which included only such members and for which Gasco was the common parent corporation, (iii) Gasco shall act as agent for all members of the Gasco Subgroup in dealing with Parent under this Agreement, and (iv) other appropriate adjustments shall be made to carry out the purposes of this Section 12.
 
13. Deconsolidation
 
In the event Gasco ceases, for any reason, to be a member of the Group (a ""), the provisions of this Section 13 shall apply.
Deconsolidation
 
Section 5 shall not apply to any Post-Deconsolidation Year. For purposes of applying Section 5 (including, without limitation, determining Gasco's stand-alone tax liability), Gasco's taxable year shall be deemed to have closed on the date of the Deconsolidation (notwithstanding that such year would not have closed on such date had Gasco filed a separate Federal Income Tax or State Income Tax return), and any period following such Deconsolidation shall be a Post-Deconsolidation Year.
(a)
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
Section 4 shall apply only with respect to years to which Section 5 applies. In addition, with respect to years following a Deconsolidation, each party shall reasonably cooperate with the other, including providing information, materials and documents, to the extent such party is in possession of information, materials or documents relevant to the administration of taxes imposed on the other party.
(b)
 
Section 6 shall not apply following a Deconsolidation. Gasco hereby covenants that it will elect (pursuant to Section 172(b)(3) of the Code and, to the extent feasible, any corresponding or similar provision of state, local or foreign law) to relinquish any right to carry back net operating losses from any Post-Deconsolidation Year to any year which is not a Post-Deconsolidation Year.
(c)
 
Section 10 shall not apply to any Post-Deconsolidation Year. In the event of a tax examination (or other administrative or judicial proceeding) with respect to a Post-Deconsolidation Year, Gasco shall not settle or compromise any item in a manner which would affect the liability of either party to the other under paragraph (d) of this Section 13 without the consent of Parent (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld).
(d)
 
The parties hereto acknowledge that it is possible that, at some time in the future, Parent may decide to distribute the stock of Gasco which it owns (directly or indirectly) to its shareholders in a transaction which is intended to qualify under Section 355 of the Code (a ""). Gasco covenants that it will not, without Parent's consent, take any action which would adversely affect the ability to effect a Spin-Off, and further covenants that, in the event Parent so decides, it will cooperate with Parent in effecting the Spin-Off (including any internal restructuring in connection therewith). Without limitation of the foregoing, Gasco agrees that, if requested by Parent, it will (i) execute such documents, and make such representations, as are necessary to obtain an opinion of counsel (or, in Parent's discretion, a private letter ruling) that the Spin-Off will be described in Section 355 of the code, (ii) enter into agreements in connection with such Spin-Off, including, without limitation, agreements which would (x) restrict the ability of Gasco to take any action which would result in (x) the Spin-Off failing to qualify under Section 355 of the Code, (y) restrict the ability of Gasco to take any action which would result in recognition of gain pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code, and/or (z) require Gasco to indemnify Parent or other Group members if the Spin-Off does not so qualify or results in recognition of gain pursuant to Section 355(e) of the Code as a result of Gasco's actions or in connection with certain acquisitions of Gasco or its capital stock by third parties, and (iii) and take any other actions reasonably requested by Parent in connection with such Spin-Off.
(e)
Spin-Off
 
14. Confidentiality
 
Each of the parties hereto shall hold, and cause its directors, officers, employees, advisors, and consultants to hold, in strict confidence all information, materials or documents concerning the other party furnished it by such other party or its representatives pursuant to this Agreement (except to the extent that such information can be shown to have been (1) in the public domain through no fault or such party or (2) later lawfully acquired from other sources not under a duty of confidentiality by the party to which it was furnished. Neither party shall release or disclose such information to any other Person, except (i) to its directors, officer, employees, auditors, attorneys, financial advisors, bankers or other consultants who shall be advised of and
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
agree to be bound by the provisions of this Section 14, (ii) if compelled to disclose by judicial or administrative process or, in the opinion of its counsel by other requirements of law, or (iii) in connection with a tax examination or other administrative or judicial proceeding in connection with the determination of taxes.
 
15. Term
 
Except as provided in Section 13, this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until such time as each of Parent and Gasco agree to terminate it.
 
16. Prior Understandings; Incorporation by Reference
 
This Agreement supersedes all prior understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, between the Parent and Gasco relating to the transactions provided for herein, including any prior confidentiality agreements and commitments. The Master Separation Agreement of even date herewith by and among Parent and Gasco and various subsidiaries of each (the "") and the other Ancillary Agreements (as defined in the Master Separation Agreement) are incorporated by reference herein; , , that to the extent that there is any conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Master Separation Agreement or other Ancillary Agreements, the terms of this Agreement shall control with respect to matters set forth herein.
Master Separation Agreement
provided
however
 
17. Governing Law
 
The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) shall govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of or in connection with this Agreement.
 
18. Notices
 
Each party giving any notice required or permitted under this Agreement will give the notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Section 18: (a) personal delivery; (b) facsimile or telecopy transmission with a reasonable method of confirming transmission; (c) commercial overnight courier with a reasonable method of confirming delivery; or (d) pre-paid, United States of America certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. Notice to a party is effective for purposes of this Agreement only if given as provided in this Section 18 and will be deemed given on the date that the intended addressee actually receives the notice.
 
If to Parent:
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: William Lyons, Chief Financial Officer
Facsimile:
 
Tax Sharing Agreement
 
If to Gasco:
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Gary Bench, Chief Financial Officer
Facsimile:
 
19. Binding Effect and Assignment
 
This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. Neither party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of the other party which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void.
 
20. Severability
 
If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement, shall remain in full force.
 
21. Counterparts
 
The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or email transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
 
22. Amendment
 
The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of Parent and Gasco and that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
 
 
Execution Copy
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Tax Sharing Agreement the day and year first above written.
 
 

Exhibit 10.73
 
Execution Copy
 
 
(this "") is made and entered into as of this 1st day of August, 2005, between CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), and CNX Gas Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("").
THIS INTERCOMPANY REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
CEI
CNX
 
 
WHEREAS, CEI currently owns, indirectly, all of the issued and outstanding common stock of CNX (""), and CNX is a member of CEI's "affiliated group" of corporations for federal income tax purposes;
Common Stock
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with a Master Separation Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005, CEI is separating its gas operations, which will be operated by CNX, from its coal operations;
 
WHEREAS, CNX intends to offer and sell for its own account up to 20% of the shares of CNX Common Stock to unaffiliated third persons pursuant to a private placement (the "") of such shares;
Private Placement
 
WHEREAS, upon completion of the Private Placement, CNX will cease to be a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of CEI.
 
WHEREAS, CEI has provided, and following the Private Placement, desires to continue to provide (or cause to be provided) pursuant to the terms hereof, funds to support liquidity and working capital needs to its domestic subsidiaries and divisions, including CNX and its subsidiaries.
 
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants and agreements set forth below, and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in Section B.
"All-In Interest Rate"
Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Preamble.
"CEI"
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in the Preamble.
"CNX"
 
means the initial closing of the purchase and sale of shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Private Placement.
"Effective Date"
 
"" means collectively, the Master Separation Agreement and the Ancillary Agreements (as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement) between CEI and CNX and the other parties thereto, with respect to administrative services, tax-sharing, cooperation and safety and separation matters.
Intercompany Agreements
 
shall have the meaning set forth in Section F.
"Maturity Date"
 
shall mean fifty million dollars ($50,000,000).
"Revolving Credit Limit"
 
shall mean that certain Services Agreement between CEI and CNX dated the date hereof.
"Services Agreement"
 
 
 
 
Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intercompany Revolving Credit Agreement
 
CEI and CNX have caused this Agreement to be executed on the date and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 
 
 
The term "Agreement" shall refer to the agreement to which this Schedule A is attached. Other capitalized terms used in this Schedule and not defined in this Schedule, shall (i) have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Separation Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005, and (ii) if not defined in the Master Separation Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005. To the extent that there is any conflict between any provision of this Schedule and any provision set forth in the body of this Agreement, the provision set forth in the body of this Agreement shall control.
 
. The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
A.
Governing Law
 
. Except as it relates to any committee-based dispute resolution and the arbitration and/or mediation provisions set forth herein (or therein with regard to documents relating to this Agreement), the parties hereby expressly and irrevocably (a) agree that any suit, action, proceeding or dispute arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement (the "Litigation") or any documents relating hereto shall be brought in and only in the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, (b) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the Litigation, (c) waive any claim or defense of lack of personal jurisdiction and of inconvenient forum or venue, (d) consent that any process or notice of motion or other application to the court or judge thereof, may be served outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by registered mail, by personal service, or by any other manner prescribed by law, and (e) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
B.
Jurisdiction and Forum Selection
 
. Each party giving any notice (a "Notice") required or permitted under this Agreement will give the Notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Schedule: (a) by telephone; or (b) in writing (which includes means of electronic transmission (i.e., "e-mail") or facsimile transmission). Any Notice shall be effective: (1) in the case of hand-delivery, when delivered; (2) if given by mail, four days after such Notice is deposited with the United States Postal Service, with first-class postage prepaid, return receipt requested; (3) in the case of a telephonic Notice, when a party is contacted by telephone, if delivery of such telephonic Notice is confirmed no later than the next day on which the party receiving the notice is open for business by hand delivery, a facsimile or electronic transmission, or overnight courier delivery of a confirmatory notice (received at or before noon on such next business day); (4) in the case of a facsimile transmission, when sent to the applicable
C.
Notices
party's facsimile machine's telephone number if the party sending such Notice receives confirmation of the delivery thereof from its own facsimile machine; (5) in the case of electronic transmission, when actually received; and (6) if given by any other means (including by overnight courier), when actually received. Until further notice, as provided above, addresses for Notices shall be:
 
If to CONSOL Energy
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (412) 831-4930
E-mail: JerryRichey@consolenergy.com
 
If to GasCo:
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile: (412) 831-4412
E-mail: NickDeIuliis@cnxgas.com
 
. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of CEI and CNX, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, CEI may assign this Agreement in connection with (a) a merger transaction in which CEI is not the surviving entity or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
D.
Binding Effect and Assignment
 
. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.
E.
Severability
 
. This Agreement, together with the other Ancillary Agreements and each of the exhibits and schedules appended hereto and thereto, constitutes the final agreement between the parties, and is the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement on the matters contained herein and therein. In the event of any reorganization, insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding (including any proceeding under 11 U.S.C.  101, et. seq. or any successor thereto) of a party, such party may not assume (pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  365 or any successor provision thereto) this Agreement unless such party also assumes all of the other Ancillary Agreements. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and therein are superseded by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, as applicable.
F.
Entire Agreement
. The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or e-mail transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
G.
Counterparts
 
. CNX will be responsible for the payment of the discount and placement fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the one percent financial advisory fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement and for all other expenses of the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the payment of all costs, fees and expenses relating to the Distribution.
H.
Certain Expenses
 
. The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of the parties that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
I.
Amendment
 
. No course of dealing and no delay or failure of any party in exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege under this Agreement shall affect any other or future exercise thereof or operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties under this Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. Any waiver, permission, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing.
J.
Waiver
 
. Each of the parties represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and (d) this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
K.
Authority
 
.
L.
Construction of Agreement
 
(a) Any reference in this Agreement to the singular includes the plural where appropriate. Any reference in this Agreement to the masculine, feminine or neuter
gender includes the other genders where appropriate. For purposes of this Agreement, after the Effective Date the Gas Operations, as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement, will be deemed to be the business of GasCo.
 
(b) Any captions, titles and headings, and any table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
 
(c) Language used in this Agreement is and shall be deemed language mutually chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party.
 
(d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and does not, and is not intended to, confer any rights or remedies in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of CONSOL Energy or GasCo) other than the parties signing this Agreement.
 
(e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
 
(f) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
 
(g) Unless otherwise expressly specified, all references in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means United States Dollars.
 
. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, to the extent it has any interest in any oil and/or gas mineral rights and to the extent not prohibited by any obligation binding at the time of formation or acquisition, each Subsidiary of CEI and CNX formed or acquired after the date of this Agreement shall promptly join in this Agreement (and all related documents, agreements and instruments as necessary or proper to effectuate the intent of this Agreement). In no event shall such joinder be later than 30 days following (i) if such Subsidiary is newly formed, the date of the filing of such Subsidiary's articles of incorporation if the Subsidiary is a corporation, the date of the filing of its certificate of limited partnership if it is a limited partnership or the date of its organization if it is an entity other than a limited partnership or corporation, or (ii) if such Subsidiary is an existing Person newly acquired, the date of the closing of the transaction constituting such acquisition.
M.
Joinder of Subsidiaries
 
. A bi-partisan committee (the "Committee") is hereby established to resolve Disputes. In all circumstances, the Committee shall act in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
N.
Dispute Resolution
 
(a) Membership of the Committee.
The Committee shall be composed of eight (8) members. Four (4) shall be appointed by CEI and four (4) shall be appointed by CNX. Committee members need not be employees of CONSOL Energy or GasCo. While not required, it is recommended that Committee members should have expertise in the following areas: safety, land, engineering and law. CONSOL Energy as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CEI as its voting representative (the ""). GasCo as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CNX (provided that so long as CNX remains a Subsidiary of CEI, a majority of the independent members of CNX's Board of Directors must have approved this designated Committee member) as its voting representative (the ""). Each of CEI and CNX may appoint alternate members, including one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CEI and one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CNX, who may act without notice to the other Parties when regular members are not available. Each of CEI and CNX shall have the right to change its members, including the CEI Rep and the GasCo Rep, or alternates at any time by notifying the other Parties in writing of such change. One of CEI's members shall be the first chairman of the Committee for a period of two (2) years commencing on the date of this Agreement, after which the chairmanship shall alternate between CEI and CNX annually. All Disputes coming before the Committee shall be decided by a unanimous vote.
CEI Rep
CNX Rep
 
(b) Committee Authority.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve any Dispute.
 
(c) Committee Meetings and Procedures
 
The Committee shall meet as needed to resolve Disputes. Either CEI or CNX may call a meeting of the Committee by giving not less than ten (10) days notice in writing to the other Party specifying the matters to be considered. Meetings shall be held in such locations as the CEI Rep and GasCo Rep shall agree. In the event that the CEI Rep and CNX Rep cannot agree on a meeting location, the location shall be at CEI's principal executive offices. A written record of each meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the Committee chairman with copies distributed to each of CEI and CNX as soon as possible after the meeting.
 
(d) Actions Without a Meeting.
 
Any Dispute subject to Committee jurisdiction may be submitted in writing, or by telephone confirmed in writing, to the Committee for consideration and vote without holding a meeting. For any Dispute so submitted, each of the CEI Rep and the CNX Rep shall vote by giving written notice, or by telephone confirmed in writing, of its vote not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice of such Dispute. Failure to respond shall be deemed a negative vote on such matter.
(e) Dispute Resolution.
 
Any Dispute must first be submitted to the Committee for resolution before any party may invoke mediation, arbitration or Litigation of the Dispute.
 
(f) Mediation
 
In the event that the Committee is unable to resolve a Dispute within 30 days of submission to it, CONSOL Energy and GasCo agree first to try in good faith to settle the Dispute by mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Mediation Rules before resorting to arbitration as set forth below; , , that any such Dispute shall be submitted to arbitration as set forth below if such Dispute is not settled within 60 days of the date on which the Dispute was first subject to mediation proceedings. Nothing in this section will prevent either CONSOL Energy or GasCo from commencing Litigation seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay could result in irreparable injury to either CONSOL Energy or GasCo. In the event that such Litigation seeking injunction or similar relief is initiated (the "Litigation Action"), mediation as set forth in this section shall nevertheless proceed concurrently with the Litigation Action. The Litigation Action shall be limited to seeking preliminary relief. Any adjudication of the merits shall be pursuant to the arbitration clause of this section.
provided
however
 
(g) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, CONSOL Energy and GasCo are the only parties entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement.
 
(h) Arbitration.
 
Any Dispute not settled by the Committee or by mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including the Emergency Interim Relief Procedures, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Within 15 days after the commencement of arbitration, CONSOL Energy and the GasCo shall each select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within 10 days of their appointment; , , that such third arbitrator shall (a) be independent of both parties and (b) have knowledge of mining operations and Gas production. All arbitrators shall be neutral arbitrators. If the two arbitrators selected are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the American Arbitration Association. The place of arbitration shall be Pittsburgh, PA. The award of the arbitrators shall be final and not subject to appeal.
provided
however
 
O. Consequential Damages.
 
UNLESS EXPRESSLY AND EXPLICITLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO THIS SECTION BEING
INAPPLICABLE, IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES (COLLECTIVELY, ), HOWEVER CAUSED BASED UPON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY; , , THAT TO THE EXTENT AN INDEMNIFIED PARTY IS REQUIRED TO PAY ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH SUCH INDEMNIFIED PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH A THIRD PARTY CLAIM, THE AMOUNT OF SUCH DAMAGES PAID BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY ON SUCH THIRD PARTY CLAIM WILL CONSTITUTE DIRECT DAMAGES AND SHALL NOT BE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 0.
"CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES"
PROVIDED
HOWEVER

Exhibit 10.74
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
THIS AGREEMENT is made and entered into as of the 1
st
day of August, 2005 (the "Effective Date") by and between CONSOL ENERGY INC., a Delaware corporation, and each of the subsidiary corporations and entities which are signatory hereto (herein, the "CEI Subsidiaries"), herein referred to collectively as "Lessor," and CNX GAS COMPANY LLC, a Virginia limited liability company, herein referred to as "Lessee."
 
WHEREAS, the entities which constitute the Lessor own, lease or otherwise control Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane, as such terms are herein defined, within and underlying, or recoverable from, various tracts or parcels of land, surface tracts, mineral tracts, coal tracts, veins or seams of coal and other real estate located throughout the United States of America, including, but not limited to, real estate located in the States of Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia and Wyoming; and
 
WHEREAS, Lessor desires to confer upon one entity the exclusive right to explore and drill for, operate, produce, process, transport, market and sell Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane owned, leased or otherwise controlled by CONSOL Energy and the various CEI Subsidiaries within the United States of America;
WHEREAS, Lessee is engaged in the business of exploring for, developing, producing and marketing Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane; and
 
WHEREAS, Lessor has executed this Agreement to transfer to, and consolidate in, Lessee, the Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane rights owned, leased and otherwise controlled by each of the entities constituting the Lessor.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, WITNESSETH: That, for and in consideration of the Bonus Payment provided in Section 4, and in further consideration of the covenants herein made, CONSOL Energy Inc. and each of the CEI Subsidiaries signatory hereto hereby grant, demise, lease, let and assign to, and exclusively confer upon, Lessee any and all right, title, interest, estate and claim in and to Oil and Natural Gas, as such term is herein defined, and Coalbed Methane, as such term is herein defined (in each case other than any Excluded Asset, as such term is herein defined), owned or leased by, or otherwise vested in, Lessor as of the Effective Date at any location within the United States of America, together with the right of ingress and egress to enter upon the Premises relating to the Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane leased hereunder to Lessee and to test, explore and drill for, operate, produce, gather, process, transport, store, market and sell such Oil and Natural Gas and such Coalbed Methane as herein provided.
 
1. As used in this Agreement, the following terms shall be defined as indicated in this section:
.
Definitions
 
a. . The term "Oil and Natural Gas" means any and all Oil, which includes natural crude oil or petroleum and other hydrocarbons, regardless of gravity, which are produced in liquid form by ordinary production methods, and any and all Natural Gas, which includes all gaseous substances generally known as natural gas, other fluid hydrocarbons which are not oil, and other gaseous substances other than Coalbed Methane, recoverable or produceable from any subterranean formation, but including within such terms only such constituent minerals, fluid or gaseous hydrocarbons and chemicals which are commonly recognized as of the date of this Agreement as being marketable as "oil" or as "natural gas."
Oil and Natural Gas
 
b. . The term "Coalbed Methane" means any gas, hydrocarbon, or gaseous substance which is, can be or has been produced from a coal seam, the rock or other strata in communication with a coal seam, a mined-out area or a gob well, but including within such term only such constituent minerals, gases and chemicals which are commonly recognized as of the date of this Agreement as being marketable as "coalbed methane."
Coalbed Methane
 
c. The term "Master Agreement" means that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement dated as of August 1,
.
Master Agreement
 
2005, by and among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain CEI Subsidiaries and Lessee, as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time. The Master Agreement, in its entirety, is incorporated in this Agreement by reference.
 
d. The term "Premises" means all tracts or parcels of land, surface tracts, mineral tracts, coal tracts, seams or veins of coal and other real estate situate within the United States of America as to which CONSOL Energy Inc. or any CEI Subsidiary owns, leases, claims or otherwise controls the Oil and Natural Gas minerals or the Coalbed Methane recoverable therefrom.
.
Premises
 
e. The term "CEI Subsidiary" means any corporation, limited liability company, or other entity as to which fifty percent (50%) or more of the stock or other equity interests, or voting control thereof, is legally or beneficially owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by CONSOL Energy Inc, including but not necessarily limited to the CEI Subsidiaries which are signatory to this Agreement.
.
CEI Subsidiary
 
f. The term "Lessor's Agent" means William D. Stanhagen, or such other person or entity as Lessor shall designate in writing to Lessee as Lessor's agent.
.
Lessor's Agent
 
g. The term "Excluded Assets" or "Excluded Asset" means any Oil and Natural Gas or Coalbed Methane or related asset
.
Excluded Assets
 
or right (a) previously conveyed, transferred or assigned by Lessor to Lessee pursuant to any instrument listed on Schedule 2 attached hereto, (b) subject to, arising from or that is an existing lease or contract listed on Schedule 3 attached hereto, (c) listed on Schedule 3 to that certain Master Separation Agreement dated as of August 1, 2005 by and among the Lessor, the Lessee and certain other parties thereto, or (d) that was evaluated as proved, probable and/or possible oil and gas interests in that certain Reserve and Economic Evaluation of Proved, Probable, and Possible Reserves of Certain CONSOL Energy Inc. Oil and Gas Interests as of March 31, 2005, dated as of June 29, 2005, prepared by Schlumberger Data and Consulting Services, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A. For the avoidance of doubt, no Excluded Asset is being leased or otherwise conveyed to Lessee under this Agreement and no rights regarding the Premises relating to any Excluded Asset are being conveyed to Lessee under this Agreement.
 
2. . There is expressly excepted from this Agreement all of the coal and coal mining rights, and other minerals, if any, owned or leased by Lessor which are not specifically granted to Lessee herein ("the Reserved Minerals"), together with the right to mine and remove the Reserved Minerals by operations which do not conflict with the terms and provisions of the Master Agreement. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary provided in this Agreement, to the extent that the transaction herein described is prohibited by the terms of a deed, mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, lease, contract, agreement or other instrument, or would
Excepted Interests
 
result in a breach or default by Lessor under any such instrument, or the termination of Lessor's rights in or title to any portion of the Oil and Natural Gas or Coalbed Methane due to the lease, sublease or assignment thereof without the consent of a former owner, mortgagee, deed of trust beneficiary, lessor or other third party, then, in such event, the properties hereby leased and/or otherwise transferred to Lessee shall not include, but shall exclude, such portion(s) of the Oil and Natural Gas or the Coalbed Methane as may be affected by such prohibition or requirement for third party consent unless and until such prohibition has been waived or such third party consent has been obtained.
 
3 . Subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, this Agreement shall remain in effect for a term of ninety-nine (99) years from the date hereof (the "Primary Term"), and as long thereafter as exploration, drilling or production operations commenced during the Primary Term are continued, or Oil and Natural Gas or Coalbed Methane is produced in paying quantities pursuant to this Agreement.
Term
 
4. . (a) Lessee covenants and agrees to pay to Lessor, c/o Lessor's Agent, at Post Office Box 371207M, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15251 a bonus payment of Fifty Thousand Dollars ($50,000.00) (the "Bonus Payment") upon Lessee's receipt of the proceeds of a private securities offering in which Lessee is engaged as of the date of this Lease. The Bonus Payment will be allocated among the parties constituting Lessor as set forth on Schedule 1 hereto.
Payments
 
(b) Lessee shall have no obligation to pay a royalty pursuant to this Agreement.
 
5. . Lessee shall have no obligation to drill or produce any specific number of wells pursuant to this Agreement, it being understood that any and all covenants, express or implied, to develop the Premises are hereby waived. If, at the expiration of the Primary Term, there are producing wells located anywhere on the Premises, Lessee shall have the right to continue to produce such wells for as long thereafter as such wells shall produce in paying quantities, but this Agreement otherwise shall expire as to the remaining undeveloped portions of the Premises. Not later than thirty (30) days following the expiration of the Primary Term, Lessee shall execute and deliver to Lessor's Agent an instrument of release and surrender of the undeveloped portions of the Premises, which instrument shall identify each well, and the productive area around such well, which Lessee shall continue to have the right to exclusively produce. Each well held by production after the expiration of the Primary Term shall hold such productive area around such well as Lessee's engineer shall reasonably specify, giving due regard to all relevant factors, or such lesser or greater area as Lessor's Agent and Lessee may otherwise agree.
Development Obligation
 
6. . Lessors and Lessee have entered into the Master Agreement, which, among other things, evidences the undertaking of each party thereto to cooperate with the other parties to the Cooperation Agreement
Interference with Operations
 
so as to maximize the safe recovery of Reserved Minerals, Oil, Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane in operations which are calculated to avoid unreasonable interference with the operations of any party. Lessor's operations and Lessee's operations under this Agreement shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the Master Agreement.
 
7. . Subject to its compliance with the well-plugging obligation provided in the next sentence of this section, Lessee may at any time, and from time to time, execute and deliver to Lessor's Agent or place of record an instrument of release covering the Premises, or any portion thereof, and thereby surrender this Agreement, in whole or in part, provided that no surrender shall be effective unless and until Lessee notifies Lessor's Agent of such surrender. Notwithstanding the foregoing grant of authority, Lessee may not surrender any portion of the Premises until Lessee has plugged all wells located within the portion(s) of the Premises to be surrendered, which well-plugging shall be conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Furthermore, whenever any well on the Premises permanently ceases to produce in paying quantities, Lessee shall promptly plug such well in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
Surrender; Well-Plugging
 
8. . If, at the expiration of the Primary Term, Lessee is engaged in drilling or reworking operations on one or more wells, or Lessee shall have completed a dry hole within sixty (60) days prior to the end
Dry Hole/Reworking Extension
 
of the Primary Term, this Agreement shall remain in force as to the productive area of the well(s) then being drilled or reworked (or, in the case of a dry hole having been completed within the immediately preceding 60 days, for an additional period of 60 days if Lessee, in good faith, intends to drill another well) for so long as operations are diligently prosecuted with no cessation of more than sixty (60) consecutive days, and if such operations result in the production of Oil or Natural Gas or Coalbed Methane, this Agreement shall remain in force as to the productive area of such well(s) for so long thereafter as Oil or Natural Gas or Coalbed Methane is produced from such well(s) in paying quantities.
 
9. . Provided Lessee is not in default of its obligations hereunder, Lessee shall have the right at any time during or within sixty (60) days after the expiration of this Agreement to remove all property and removable fixtures placed by Lessee on the Premises, including the right to draw and remove all casing. Any property, equipment, machinery or fixtures left on the Premises after the expiration of said sixty (60) day period shall be forfeited by Lessee and become the property of the Lessor.
Removal of Property
 
10. . To the extent that Lessor has a right to do so under the law of the applicable jurisdictions, Lessor grants to Lessee the right to use Lessor's water located on the Premises, and water supplied to the Premises by public or private water companies, for drilling and producing operations; provided that, Lessee's right to
Use of Water
 
use such water shall be subject to the condition that there be sufficient volumes of water to satisfy Lessor's needs and requirements; and, provided, further, that, in the case of water supplied to the Premises by a public or private water company for a charge or fee, Lessee shall reimburse Lessor for the prorated cost of the water used by Lessee.
 
11. . Lessee may not assign this Agreement or sublease the Premises, in whole or in part, unless Lessee first obtains the express written consent of Lessor to such assignment or sublease, as well as the express written agreement of the assignee or sublessee to assume all of the obligations of Lessee contained in this Agreement. Lessor's consent to an assignment or a sublease shall not operate as a release of Lessee from the obligations of the lessee herein unless Lessor also expressly releases and discharges Lessee from such obligations in writing. (For purposes of this Agreement, any transaction which, singularly or in combination with prior transactions, results in the ownership or voting control of more than fifty percent (50%) of the equity interests of Lessee by a person or persons other than CONSOL Energy Inc. or a CEI Subsidiary shall be deemed to be an assignment as to which Lessor's consent is required.) No change or division in ownership of the Premises shall be binding on Lessee until Lessee shall have been furnished with a copy of the duly executed instrument or instruments evidencing such change or division of ownership.
Assignment
 
12. . Lessor shall have the right to receive from Lessee, at Lessee's expense, a cut of samples, copies of reports, logs, surveys and like materials generated by or for Lessee with respect to each well drilled and operated hereunder. Lessor shall have full and unrestricted access to the Premises and to all wells and operations thereon, at Lessor's risk and expense, at all times. Lessee shall give Lessor's Agent timely notice of the drilling of each well drilled hereunder. Lessee shall furnish Lessor's Agent with a copy of the plugging affidavit for each well plugged by Lessee.
Access to Information
 
13. . The location of all wells, pipelines, roads and other facilities constructed by Lessee pursuant to this Agreement shall be governed by the applicable provisions of the Master Agreement.
Well, Pipeline, and Road Locations
 
14. . Lessee grants to Lessor's Agent a landlord's lien upon all equipment, machinery, fixtures and other personal property located on the Premises to secure the payment of all monies of every character due or becoming due at any time under this Agreement and the performance by Lessee and its assignee(s) and sublessee(s) of its obligations hereunder.
Landlord's Lien
 
15. . Lessee takes and accepts this Agreement with the knowledge and understanding that the Reserved Minerals have
Acceptance of Premises
 
been, may have been, or may at some point in the future be, mined and removed from the Premises. Lessor makes no guarantee or warranty with respect to the quantity or quality of the Oil and Natural Gas or the Coalbed Methane which may be recoverable from the Premises, it being understood and acknowledged by Lessee that the Premises are being leased "as is" in their existing condition and circumstances as past, present and/or future mining properties.
 
16. Lessee covenants with Lessor that all of its operations pursuant to this Agreement shall be conducted in compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and regulations, including, without limitation, laws regulating the drilling and production of Oil and Natural Gas and Coalbed Methane, environmental laws, reclamation laws, conservation laws, labor and employment laws, wage payment laws, workers' compensation laws and severance, production and taxation laws. Lessee hereby covenants and agrees to indemnify, defend and hold harmless CONSOL Energy Inc. and all CEI Subsidiaries from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, threatened actions, governmental enforcement proceedings, costs (including reasonable attorneys' fees) liabilities, fines, penalties, and other loss arising or resulting from (i) Lessee's actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws, or (ii) injury to person or property (including the environment) actually or allegedly caused by or resulting from Lessee's negligence or the negligence of Lessee's agents or contractors.
.
Compliance with Law; Indemnity
ad valorem
 
17. Lessee's failure to substantially comply with any of the covenants or obligations imposed on it under this Agreement shall be considered to be an Event of Default. If Lessee fails to cure any such Event of Default within thirty (30) days following its receipt of written demand therefor from Lessor (or, if such Event of Default cannot reasonably be cured within thirty (30) days, then such longer period of time as is reasonably required to cure such Event of Default, not to exceed ninety (90) days), Lessor, at its option, may declare this Agreement terminated by written notice of termination to Lessee; and, if Lessor exercises such right of termination, all of Lessee's rights and privileges hereunder shall automatically and immediately terminate; provided that, notwithstanding a termination of this Agreement pursuant to this section, Lessee shall continue to be obligated to plug all nonproductive wells located upon the Premises in compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
.
Default; Termination
 
18. . Upon the request of Lessee, a memorandum, summary or short form of this Agreement will be executed by the parties in form(s) appropriate for recording in each State wherein any portion of the Premises is located; and such memoranda may be placed of record, at Lessee's expense, in the land records of any county of any such State.
Memorandum of Lease
 
19. . Each of Lessor and Lessee hereby expressly agrees to do such other acts and things as the other party in its reasonable discretion may deem necessary or advisable from time to time in order to effectuate the
Further Assurances
 
terms and intent of this Agreement; , , that Lessee shall bear all expenses and costs (including, without limitation, transfer taxes, property taxes, filing fees and attorneys' fees) relating to such acts and things performed by Lessor at Lessee's request. In all other respects, Lessor and Lessee shall bear their own expenses and costs.
provided
however
 
20. The terms set forth on Schedule A attached hereto are incorporated by reference and shall apply to this Agreement (including each of the exhibits and other schedules hereto); provided, however, that the section of on Consequential Damages shall not apply to Lessee's obligation to indemnify CONSOL Energy Inc. and the CEI Subsidiaries set forth in Section 16(ii) of this Agreement to the extent that the injury to person or property is with respect to a person or entity not CONSOL Energy Inc. or any of the CEI Subsidiaries.
Incorporation of Miscellaneous Terms
.
Schedule
A
 
Master Lease Agreement
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed by their respective duly authorized officials as of the day and year first herein above written.
 
 
Master Lease Agreement
 
 
Master Lease Agreement
 
 
Master Lease Agreement
 
 
 
The term "Agreement" shall refer to the agreement to which this Schedule A is attached. Other capitalized terms used in this Schedule and not defined in this Schedule, shall (i) have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Separation Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005, and (ii) if not defined in the Master Separation Agreement shall have the meanings ascribed thereto in that certain Master Cooperation and Safety Agreement among CONSOL Energy Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries and CNX Gas Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries dated as of August 1, 2005. To the extent that there is any conflict between any provision of this Schedule and any provision set forth in the body of this Agreement, the provision set forth in the body of this Agreement shall control.
 
A. Governing Law. The internal laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania (without reference to its principles of conflicts of law) govern the construction, interpretation and other matters arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement, unless expressly provided otherwise in this Agreement.
 
B. Jurisdiction and Forum Selection. Except as it relates to any committee-based dispute resolution and the arbitration and/or mediation provisions set forth herein (or therein with regard to documents relating to this Agreement), the parties hereby expressly and irrevocably (a) agree that any suit, action, proceeding or dispute arising out of, relating to, or in connection with this Agreement (the "Litigation") or any documents relating hereto shall be brought in and only in the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, (b) consent and submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the state or federal courts located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, for the
 
Litigation, (c) waive any claim or defense of lack of personal jurisdiction and of inconvenient forum or venue, (d) consent that any process or notice of motion or other application to the court or judge thereof, may be served outside the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania by registered mail, by personal service, or by any other manner prescribed by law, and (e) WAIVE TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW ANY RIGHT TO TRIAL OR ADJUDICATION BY JURY.
 
C. Notices. Each party giving any notice (a "Notice") required or permitted under this Agreement will give the Notice in writing and use one of the following methods of delivery to the party to be notified, at the address set forth below or another address of which the sending party has been notified in accordance with this Schedule: (a) by telephone; or (b) in writing (which includes means of electronic transmission (i.e., "e-mail") or facsimile transmission). Any Notice shall be effective: (1) in the case of hand-delivery, when delivered; (2) if given by mail, four days after such Notice is deposited with the United States Postal Service, with first-class postage prepaid, return receipt requested; (3) in the case of a telephonic Notice, when a party is contacted by telephone, if delivery of such telephonic Notice is confirmed no later than the next day on which the party receiving the notice is open for business by hand delivery, a facsimile or electronic transmission, or overnight courier delivery of a confirmatory notice (received at or before noon on such next business day); (4) in the case of a facsimile transmission, when sent to the applicable party's facsimile machine's telephone number if the party sending such Notice receives confirmation of the delivery thereof from its own facsimile machine; (5) in the case of electronic transmission, when actually received; and (6) if given by any other means (including by overnight courier), when actually received. Until further notice, as provided above, addresses for Notices shall be:
 
:
If to CONSOL Energy
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: General Counsel
Facsimile: (412) 831-4930
E-mail: JerryRichey@consolenergy.com
 
:
If to GasCo
 
CNX Gas Corporation
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Attention: Chief Executive Officer
Facsimile: (412) 831-4412
E-mail:
NickDeIuliis@cnxgas.com
 
D. Binding Effect and Assignment. This Agreement binds and benefits the parties and their respective successors and assigns. No party may assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of CEI and CNX, which consent may be withheld in such party's sole and absolute discretion, and any assignment or attempted assignment in violation of the foregoing will be null and void. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, CEI may assign this Agreement in connection with (a) a merger transaction in which CEI is not the surviving entity or (b) the sale of all or substantially all of its assets.
 
E. Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain in full force.
 
F. Entire Agreement. This Agreement, together with the other Ancillary Agreements and each of the exhibits and schedules appended hereto and thereto, constitutes the final agreement between the parties, and is the complete and exclusive statement of the parties' agreement on the matters contained herein and therein. In the event of any reorganization, insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding (including any proceeding under 11 U.S.C.  101, et. seq. or any successor thereto) of a party, such party may not assume (pursuant to 11 U.S.C.  365 or any successor provision thereto) this Agreement unless such party also assumes all of the other Ancillary Agreements. All prior and contemporaneous negotiations and agreements between the parties with respect to the matters contained herein and therein are superseded by this Agreement and the other Ancillary Agreements, as applicable.
 
G. Counterparts. The parties may execute this Agreement in multiple counterparts, each of which constitutes an original as against the party that signed it, and all of which together constitute one agreement. The signatures of the parties need not appear on the same counterpart. The delivery of signed counterparts by facsimile or e-mail transmission that includes a copy of the sending party's signature is as effective as signing and delivering the counterpart in person.
 
H. Certain Expenses. CNX will be responsible for the payment of the discount and placement fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the one percent financial advisory fee due to the initial purchaser in the Private Placement and for all other expenses of the Private Placement. CEI will be responsible for the payment of all costs, fees and expenses relating to the Distribution.
 
I. Amendment. The parties may amend this Agreement only by a written agreement signed by each of the parties that identifies itself as an amendment to this Agreement.
 
J. Waiver. No course of dealing and no delay or failure of any party in exercising any right, power, remedy or privilege under this Agreement shall affect any other or future exercise thereof or operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise thereof or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any further exercise thereof or of any other right, power, remedy or privilege. The rights and remedies of the parties under this
 
Agreement are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which they would otherwise have. Any waiver, permission, consent or approval of any kind or character on the part of any party of any breach or default under this Agreement or any such waiver of any provision or condition of this Agreement must be in writing and shall be effective only to the extent specifically set forth in such writing.
 
K. Authority. Each of the parties represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other action, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party, and (d) this Agreement and each of the other Ancillary Agreements to which it is a party is a legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and general equity principles.
 
L. Construction of Agreement.
 
a) Any reference in this Agreement to the singular includes the plural where appropriate. Any reference in this Agreement to the masculine, feminine or neuter gender includes the other genders where appropriate. For purposes of this Agreement, after the Effective Date the Gas Operations, as such term is defined in the Master Separation Agreement, will be deemed to be the business of GasCo.
 
b) Any captions, titles and headings, and any table of contents, included in this Agreement are for convenience only, and do not affect this Agreement's construction or interpretation. When a reference is made in this Agreement to an Article or a Section, exhibit or schedule, such reference will be to an Article or Section of, or an exhibit or schedule to, this Agreement unless otherwise indicated.
 
c) Language used in this Agreement is and shall be deemed language mutually chosen by the parties hereto to express their mutual intent and no rule of strict construction shall be applied against any party.
 
d) This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and does not, and is not intended to, confer any rights or remedies in favor of any Person (including any employee or stockholder of CONSOL Energy or GasCo) other than the parties signing this Agreement.
 
e) The words "including," "includes," or "include" are to be read as listing non-exclusive examples of the matters referred to, whether or not words such as "without limitation" or "but not limited to" are used in each instance.
 
f) Where this Agreement states that a party "will" or "shall" perform in some manner or otherwise act or omit to act, it means that the party is legally obligated to do so in accordance with this Agreement.
 
g) Unless otherwise expressly specified, all references in this Agreement to "dollars" or "$" means United States Dollars.
 
M. Joinder of Subsidiaries. Unless otherwise provided in this Agreement, to the extent it has any interest in any oil and/or gas mineral rights and to the extent not prohibited by any obligation binding at the time of formation or acquisition, each Subsidiary of CEI and CNX formed or acquired after the date of this Agreement shall promptly join in this Agreement (and all related documents, agreements and instruments as necessary or proper to effectuate the intent of this Agreement). In no event shall such joinder be later than 30 days following (i) if such Subsidiary is newly formed, the date of the filing of such Subsidiary's articles of incorporation if the Subsidiary is a corporation, the date of the filing of its certificate of limited partnership if it is a limited partnership or the date of its organization if it is an entity other than a limited partnership or corporation, or (ii) if such Subsidiary is an existing Person newly acquired, the date of the closing of the transaction constituting such acquisition.
 
N. Dispute Resolution. A bi-partisan committee (the "Committee") is hereby established to resolve Disputes. In all circumstances, the Committee shall act in accordance with the purpose of this Agreement.
 
a) Membership of the Committee.
 
The Committee shall be composed of eight (8) members. Four (4) shall be appointed by CEI and four (4) shall be appointed by CNX. Committee members need not be employees of CONSOL Energy or GasCo. While not required, it is recommended that Committee members should have expertise in the following areas: safety, land, engineering and law. CONSOL Energy as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CEI as its voting representative (the "CEI Rep"). GasCo as a whole shall be entitled to cast one vote which shall be cast by the Committee member designated by CNX (provided that so long as CNX remains a Subsidiary of CEI, a majority of the independent members of CNX's Board of Directors must have approved this designated Committee member) as its voting representative (the "CNX Rep"). Each of CEI and CNX may appoint alternate members, including one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CEI and one or more alternate CNX Reps in the case of CNX, who may act without notice to the other Parties when regular members are not available. Each of CEI and CNX shall have the right to change its members, including the CEI Rep and the GasCo Rep, or alternates at any time by notifying the other Parties in writing of such change. One of CEI's members shall be the first chairman of the Committee for a period of two (2) years commencing on the date of this Agreement, after which the chairmanship shall alternate between CEI and CNX annually. All Disputes coming before the Committee shall be decided by a unanimous vote.
 
b) Committee Authority.
 
The Committee shall have the authority to resolve any Dispute.
 
c) Committee Meetings and Procedures
 
The Committee shall meet as needed to resolve Disputes. Either CEI or CNX may call a meeting of the Committee by giving not less than ten (10) days notice in writing to the other Party specifying the matters to be considered. Meetings shall be held in such locations as the CEI Rep and GasCo Rep shall agree. In the event that the CEI Rep and CNX Rep cannot agree on a meeting location, the location shall be at CEI's principal executive offices. A written record of each meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the Committee chairman with copies distributed to each of CEI and CNX as soon as possible after the meeting.
 
d) Actions Without a Meeting.
 
Any Dispute subject to Committee jurisdiction may be submitted in writing, or by telephone confirmed in writing, to the Committee for consideration and vote without holding a meeting. For any Dispute so submitted, each of the CEI Rep and the CNX Rep shall vote by giving written notice, or by telephone confirmed in writing, of its vote not later than ten (10) days after receipt of notice of such Dispute. Failure to respond shall be deemed a negative vote on such matter.
 
e) Dispute Resolution.
 
Any Dispute must first be submitted to the Committee for resolution before any party may invoke mediation, arbitration or Litigation of the Dispute.
 
f) Mediation
 
In the event that the Committee is unable to resolve a Dispute within 30 days of submission to it, CONSOL Energy and GasCo agree first to try in good faith to settle the Dispute by mediation administered by the American Arbitration Association under its Commercial Mediation Rules before resorting to arbitration as set forth below; provided, however, that any such Dispute shall be submitted to arbitration as set forth below if such Dispute is not settled within 60 days of the date on which the Dispute was first subject to mediation proceedings. Nothing in this section will prevent either CONSOL Energy or GasCo from commencing Litigation seeking injunctive or similar relief if any delay could result in irreparable injury to either CONSOL Energy or GasCo. In the event that such Litigation seeking injunction or similar relief is initiated (the "Litigation Action"), mediation as set forth in this section shall nevertheless proceed concurrently with the Litigation Action. The Litigation Action shall be limited to seeking preliminary relief. Any adjudication of the merits shall be pursuant to the arbitration clause of this section.
 
g) Commencement of Dispute Resolution Procedure.
 
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, CONSOL Energy and GasCo are the only parties entitled to commence a dispute resolution procedure under this Agreement.
 
h) Arbitration.
 
Any Dispute not settled by the Committee or by mediation shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial Arbitration Rules, including the Emergency Interim Relief Procedures, and judgment on the award may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof. Within 15 days after the commencement of arbitration, CONSOL Energy and the GasCo shall each select one person to act as arbitrator, and the two selected shall select a third arbitrator within 10 days of their appointment; provided, however, that such third arbitrator shall (a) be independent of both parties and (b) have knowledge of mining operations and Gas production. All arbitrators shall be neutral arbitrators. If the two arbitrators selected are unable or fail to agree upon the third arbitrator, the third arbitrator shall be selected by the American Arbitration Association. The place of arbitration shall be Pittsburgh, PA. The award of the arbitrators shall be final and not subject to appeal.
 
O. Consequential Damages.
 
UNLESS EXPRESSLY AND EXPLICITLY PROVIDED TO THE CONTRARY BY SPECIFIC REFERENCE TO THIS SECTION BEING INAPPLICABLE, IN NO EVENT WILL ANY PARTY BE LIABLE TO ANY OTHER PARTY FOR ANY SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, INDIRECT, COLLATERAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOST PROFITS OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION DAMAGES (COLLECTIVELY, "CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES"), HOWEVER CAUSED BASED UPON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, THAT TO THE EXTENT AN INDEMNIFIED PARTY IS REQUIRED TO PAY ANY CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES TO A PERSON WHO IS NOT AFFILIATED WITH SUCH INDEMNIFIED PARTY IN CONNECTION WITH A THIRD PARTY CLAIM, THE AMOUNT OF SUCH DAMAGES PAID BY THE INDEMNIFIED PARTY ON SUCH THIRD PARTY CLAIM WILL CONSTITUTE DIRECT DAMAGES AND SHALL NOT BE SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATION SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 0.
 

Exhibit 10.75
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO COLLATERAL TRUST AGREEMENT ("Amendment"), dated as of April 1, 2005, is made by and among CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (the ""), the undersigned subsidiaries of the Borrower (the "", collectively with the Borrower, the ""), Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as corporate trustee (the ""), and David A. Vanaskey, an individual residing in the State of Delaware, not in his individual capacity but solely as individual trustee (the ""; the Corporate Trustee and the Individual Trustee are each, individually, a "" and collectively, the ""), as trustees for the Secured Parties;
Borrower
Designated Subsidiaries
Loan Parties
Corporate Trustee
Individual Trustee
Collateral Trustee
Collateral Trustees
 
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto are parties to that certain Collateral Trust Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2004, as amended pursuant to Amendment No. 1 to Collateral Trust Agreement dated as of April 1, 2005 (the ""). Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings given to them under the Collateral Trust Agreement; and
Collateral Trust Agreement
 
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested that the Collateral Trust Agreement be amended to (a) reflect the release of the entities listed on hereto (the "") and (b) clarify the effective time of release of collateral under certain conditions; and
Exhibit A
Released Parties
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto agree to amend the Collateral Trust Agreement on the terms and conditions set forth below; and
 
WHEREAS, the Loan Parties listed on (collectively, the "") have been merged into other Loan Parties;
Exhibit B
Merged Parties
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, covenant and agree as follows:
 
1. . The recitals set forth above are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Recitals
 
2. . The Released Parties, as of the date hereof, are hereby released from all obligations under the Collateral Trust Agreement. Each of the Loan Parties not released hereby and the Collateral Agents consents to the release of the Released Parties from all obligations under the Collateral Trust Agreement and further acknowledges and agrees that, as of the date hereof, the Released Parties are no longer Loan Parties or Designated Subsidiaries for the purposes of the Collateral Trust Agreement.
Release
3. .
Amendments to Collateral Trust Agreement
 
(a) The defined term "" set forth in the first paragraph of the Collateral Trust Agreement is hereby amended to exclude the Released Parties and the Merged Parties.
Designated Subsidiaries
 
(b) Section 6.3(a) of the Collateral Trust Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
"(a) The release of the applicable Collateral shall be effective (i) upon the occurrence of the events specified in Section 6.1(i), (ii) in connection with an event described in Section 6.l(ii), upon the expiration of five (5) Business Days following receipt by the Collateral Trustees of a Release Notice not acknowledged and consented to in writing by the Credit Facility Agent at the time such Release Notice is sent to Collateral Trustee, unless, prior to the expiration of such period, the Collateral Trustees shall have received a certificate in writing from the Credit Facility Agent to the effect set forth in the second sentence of Section 6.2(a), in which event the release of Collateral shall not be effective until the date on which any of the events set forth in Section 6.2(b) shall occur, or (iii) in connection with an event described in Section 6.1(ii), upon receipt by the Collateral Trustees of a Release Notice acknowledged and consented to in writing by the Credit Facility Agent."
 
4. . The Loan Parties and the Collateral Trustees acknowledge that this Amendment shall not be effective until each of the Loan Parties and the Collateral Trustees shall have executed this Amendment and the Credit Facility Agent shall have executed a Consent to this Amendment in the form attached as hereto.
Condition Precedent
Exhibit C
 
5. . This Amendment shall be incorporated into the Collateral Trust Agreement by this reference. All terms, provisions, representations, warranties and covenants set forth herein shall be a part of the Collateral Trust Agreement as if originally contained therein. Any reference to the Collateral Trust Agreement in any Loan Document, instrument or agreement shall hereafter mean the Collateral Trust Agreement as amended by this Agreement.
Incorporation into Collateral Trust Agreement
 
6. . Except as expressly modified by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions, representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Collateral Trust Agreement are true and correct and shall continue in full force and effect, including without limitation, all liens and security interests securing the Borrower's obligations under the Secured Debt.
Full Force and Effect
 
7. . This Amendment may be executed by different parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered shall be an original and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
8. , If any term of this Amendment or any application thereof shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity of other terms of this Amendment or any other application of such term shall in no way be affected thereby.
Severability
 
9. . This Amendment sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the amendments to the Collateral Trust Agreement contemplated hereby and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, between the parties hereto relating to such amendments. No representation, promise, inducement or statement of intention has been made by any party that is not embodied in this Amendment, and no party shall be bound by or liable for any alleged representation, promise, inducement or statement of intention not set forth herein.
Entire Agreement
 
10. . This Amendment shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the internal laws of the State of Delaware applicable to contracts made and to be performed in said State.
Governing Law
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their officers thereunto duly authorized, have executed this Amendment No. 2 to Collateral Trust Agreement as of the day and year first above written with the intention that it constitute a sealed instrument.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.76
 
 
THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1, dated as of August 8, 2005, to (a) SECURITY AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2004 (the ""), among Wilmington Trust Company, not in its individual capacity but solely as corporate trustee (the ""), CONSOL Energy Inc, (the ""), and certain subsidiaries of the Borrower listed on the signature pages hereof (together with the Borrower, collectively the ""); (b) PLEDGE AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2004 (the ""), among the Corporate Trustee, the Borrower, and the other Loan Parties; (c) PATENT, TRADEMARK AND COPYRIGHT SECURITY AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2004 (the ""), among the Corporate Trustee, the Borrower, and the other Loan Parties; and (d) REGULATED SUBSTANCES CERTIFICATE AND INDEMNITY AGREEMENT, dated as of June 30, 2004 (the ""), among the Corporate Trustee, David A. Vanaskey, an individual, not in his individual capacity but solely as individual trustee (the ""; the Corporate Trustee and the Individual Trustee are each, individually, a "" and collectively, the ""), the Borrower, and the other Loan Parties.
Security Agreement
Corporate Trustee
Borrower
Loan Parties
Pledge Agreement
IP Security Agreement
Indemnity Agreement
Individual Trustee
Collateral Trustee
Collateral Trustees
 
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 8.2.7 of the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 1, 2005 (the ""), by and among Borrower, each of the Guarantors (as defined therein), PNC Bank, National Association and Citicorp North America, Inc., as co-administrative agents, and the banks or other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto, certain assets of the Loan Parties are being disposed of pursuant to a Permitted Gas Properties Transaction (as defined in the Credit Agreement);
Credit Agreement
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 10.20 of the Credit Agreement and Section 7.1(a) of the Collateral Trust Agreement, dated as of June 30, 2004, as amended (the ""; capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Collateral Trust Agreement), among the Corporate Trustee and the Individual Trustee, as trustees for the Secured Parties (as defined therein), the Borrower and certain Subsidiaries of the Borrower, which Collateral Trust Agreement is being amended contemporaneously herewith, the Borrower, in connection with such Permitted Gas Properties Transaction, has requested that the Security Agreement, the Pledge Agreement, the IP Security Agreement and the Indemnity Agreement (collectively, the "") be amended to release the entities listed on hereto (the "") from all obligations under the Agreements; and
Collateral Trust Agreement
Agreements
Exhibit A
Released Parties
 
WHEREAS, the Loan Parties listed on (collectively, the "") have been merged into other Loan Parties;
Exhibit B
Merged Parties
 
NOW, THEREFORE, the parties hereto, in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements herein contained and intending to be legally bound hereby, covenant and agree as follows:
 
1. . The recitals set forth above are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Recitals
2. . The Released Parties, as of the date hereof, are hereby released from all obligations under the Agreements. Each of the Loan Parties not released hereby and the Collateral Trustees consents to the release of the Released Parties from all obligations under the Agreements and further acknowledges and agrees that, as of the date hereof, the Released Parties are no longer Loan Parties for the purposes of the Agreements.
Release
 
3. .
Amendments to Loan Documents
 
(a) .
Security Agreement
 
(i) The defined terms "" and "" in the Security Agreement are hereby amended to exclude the Released Parties and the Merged Parties.
Debtor
Debtors
 
(ii) The proviso of Section 1(b) of the Security Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"provided, that, notwithstanding any of the foregoing, "Collateral" shall not include (i) Excluded Properties, (ii) Pledged Collateral pledged under the Pledge Agreement, (iii) Intellectual Property Collateral, security interests in which are granted under the Patent, Trademark and Copyright Assignment, (iv) Vessels (as defined in the Ship Mortgages), securities interests in which are granted under the Ship Mortgages, (v) pursuant to Section 8.1.16 of the Credit Agreement, any assets or stock acquired in a Permitted Acquisition and to the extent and only as long as encumbered by a Lien permitted by clauses (xiii) or (xv) of the definition of Permitted Liens or (vi) any assets described on Schedule 8.1.16 to the Credit Agreement"
 
(iii) Schedule A to the Security Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with hereto.
Exhibit C
 
(b) .
Pledge Agreement
 
(i) The defined terms "" and "" in the Pledge Agreement are hereby amended to exclude the Released Parties and the Merged Parties.
Pledgor
Pledgors
 
(ii) The proviso of Section 1(b) of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows;
 
"provided, however, that pursuant to Section 8.1.16 of the Credit Agreement, the Pledged Collateral shall not include (I) any stock or assets acquired in a Permitted Acquisition and to the extent and only so long as encumbered by a Lien permitted by clause (xiii) or (xv) of the definition of Permitted Lien, (II) any ownership interest in an Excluded Subsidiary (other than a wholly-owned Foreign Company or any Loan Party that becomes an Excluded Subsidiary pursuant to a Permitted Gas Properties Transaction to the extent the capital stock or equity interests of such Excluded Subsidiary are required to be pledged pursuant to Section 8.1.16 of the Credit Agreement), (III) any assets
 
described on Schedule 8.1.16 to the Credit Agreement or (IV) or any of the Pledged Collateral described in clauses (ii) and (iii) related to the foregoing."
 
(iii) Schedule A to the Pledge Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with hereto.
Exhibit D
 
(iv) Section 4(b) of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"The capital stock shares, securities, member interests, partnership interests and other ownership interests constituting the Pledged Collateral have been duly authorized and validly issued to such Pledgor (as set forth on hereto), are fully paid and nonassessable and constitute the following (i) the percentage listed on of the issued and outstanding capital stock, member interests and partnership interests of each of the Companies which are not Foreign Companies, and (ii) the lesser of (x) sixty five percent (65%) of the issued and outstanding capital stock shares, securities, member interests and partnership interests of each of the Foreign Companies or (y) all of the issued and outstanding capital stock, member interests and partnership interests owned by any Loan Party of each Foreign Company;".
Schedule A
Schedule A
 
(v) Section 4(d) of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"Other than restrictions on the sale or transfer of CNX Gas Corporation common stock or other securities beneficially owned by any Loan Party which are contained or entered into in connection with public or private underwriting/placement agreements for public or private offering of the common stock or other securities of CNX Gas Corporation, there are no restrictions upon the transfer of the Pledged Collateral and such Pledgor has the power and authority and right to transfer the Pledged Collateral owned by such Pledgor free of any encumbrances, subject to Permitted Pledged Collateral Liens, and without obtaining the consent of any other Person;".
 
(vi) Section 4(j) of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"Other than as described on Schedule 6.1.18 to the Credit Agreement, no shareholder or other similar agreements, other than organizational documents are applicable to any of the Pledged Collateral and no organizational document of any Company, except CNX Gas Corporation, contains any restrictions on the rights of shareholders, members or partners other than those that normally would apply to a company organized under the laws of the jurisdiction of organization of each of the Companies."
 
(vii) Section 5(a) of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"Such Pledgor shall do all reasonable acts that may be necessary and appropriate to maintain, reserve and protect the Pledged Collateral and the Collateral Trustee's interest therein, subject to Permitted Pledged Collateral Liens and restrictions on the sale or transfer of CNX Gas Corporation common stock or other securities beneficially owned by any Loan Party which are contained or entered into in connection with public or private underwriting/placement agreements for public or private offering of the common stock or other securities of CNX Gas Corporation; such Pledgor shall be responsible for the risk of loss of, damage to, or destruction of the Pledged Collateral owned by such Pledgor, unless such loss is the result of the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Collateral Trustee."
 
(viii) Section 19 of the Pledge Agreement is hereby amended in its entirety as follows:
 
"So long as no Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, each Pledgor may exercise any and all voting and other consensual rights pertaining to the Pledged Collateral or any part thereof for any purpose not inconsistent with the terms of this Agreement or the other Debt Instruments. The Pledgors shall not vote (i) to enable, or take any other action to permit, any of the Companies to issue any stock, capital stock, shares, member interests, partnership interests, other equity securities or other ownership interests of any nature of any such Company, other than stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, other stock-based awards as well as performance awards of CNX Gas Corporation that may be made from time to time to directors, employees, and consultants of CNX Gas Corporation and its affiliates (including the Loan Parties) and overallotment options granted to underwriters or placement agents for additional shares of common stock or other securities of CNX Gas Corporation granted in connection with public or private offerings of its common stock or other securities or (ii) to enter into any agreement or undertaking restricting the right or ability of the Pledgor or the Collateral Trustee to sell, assign or transfer any of the Pledged Collateral, other than restrictions on the sale or transfer of CNX Gas Corporation common stock or other securities beneficially owned by any Loan Party which are contained or entered into in connection with public or private underwriting/placement agreements for public or private offering of the common stock or other securities of CNX Gas Corporation."
 
(c) . The defined terms "" and "" in the IP Security Agreement are hereby amended to exclude the Released Parties and the Merged Parties.
IP Security Agreement
Pledgor
Pledgors
 
(d) . The defined term "" in the Indemnity Agreement is hereby amended to exclude the Released Parties and the Merged Parties.
Indemnity Agreement
Guarantors
 
4. . The Loan Parties and the Collateral Trustees acknowledge that this Amendment shall not be effective until each of the Loan Parties and the Collateral
Condition Precedent
 
Trustees shall have executed this Amendment and the Credit Facility Agent shall have executed a Consent to this Amendment in the form attached as hereto.
Exhibit E
 
5. . The terms, provisions, representations, warranties and covenants set forth herein shall be incorporated, as applicable, into the respective Agreements by this reference. All terms, provisions, representations, warranties and covenants set forth herein, as applicable, shall be a part of the respective Agreements as if originally contained therein.
Incorporation into Agreements
 
6. . Except as expressly modified by this Amendment, all of the terms, conditions, representations, warranties and covenants contained in the Agreements shall continue in full force and effect, including without limitation, all liens and security interests securing the Borrower's obligations under the Secured Debt.
Full Force and Effect
 
7. . This Amendment may be executed by different parties hereto in any number of separate counterparts, each of which, when so executed and delivered shall be an original and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
8. . If any term of this Amendment or any application thereof shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity of other terms of this Amendment or any other application of such term shall in no way be affected thereby.
Severability
 
9. . This Amendment sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the amendments to the Agreements contemplated hereby and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements, whether written or oral, between the parties hereto relating to such amendments. No representation, promise, inducement or statement of intention has been made by any party that is not embodied in this Amendment, and no party shall be bound by or liable for any alleged representation, promise, inducement or statement of intention not set forth herein.
Entire Agreement
 
10. . This Amendment shall be construed and enforced in accordance with, and the rights of the parties shall be governed by, the internal laws of the State of Pennsylvania applicable to contracts made and to be performed in said State.
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, by their officers thereunto duly authorized, have executed this Amendment No. 1 to Security Agreement, Pledge Agreement, Patent, Trademark and Security Agreement and Regulated Substances Certificate and Indemnity Agreement as of the day and year first above written with the intention that it constitute a sealed instrument.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.77
 
 
THIS ORIGINATOR RELEASE is dated as of August 8, 2005 and is entered into by and among ("CNX Gas"), ("CNX Funding"), ("Market Street"), . ("Liberty Street"), ("PNC"), and ("BNS").
CONSOL ENERGY INC., CONSOL SALES COMPANY, CONSOL OF KENTUCKY INC., CONSOL PENNSYLVANIA COAL COMPANY, CONSOLIDATION COAL COMPANY, ISLAND CREEK COAL COMPANY, WINDSOR COAL COMPANY, MCELROY COAL COMPANY, KEYSTONE COAL MINING COMPANY, EIGHTY-FOUR MINING COMPANY, CNX MARINE TERMINALS INC., CNX GAS COMPANY LLC
CNX FUNDING CORPORATION
MARKET STREET FUNDING CORPORATION
LIBERTY STREET FUNDING CORP
PNC BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA
 
Reference is hereby made to that certain Purchase and Sale Agreement dated as of April 30, 2003 by and among CONSOL Sales Company, CONSOL of Kentucky Inc., CONSOL Pennsylvania Coal Company, Consolidation Coal Company, Island Creek Coal Company, Windsor Coal Company, McElroy Coal Company, Keystone Coal Mining Company, Eighty-Four Mining Company, CNX Marine Terminals Inc., CNX Gas, CNX Funding, and CONSOL Energy Inc. (as amended, supplemented, joined, restated and/or otherwise modified from time to time, the "Sale Agreement") and to that certain Receivables Purchase Agreement dated as of April 30, 2003 by and among CONSOL Sales Company, CONSOL of Kentucky Inc., Consol Pennsylvania Coal Company, Consolidation Coal Company, Island Creek Coal Company, Windsor Coal Company, McElroy Coal Company, Keystone Coal Mining Company, Eighty-Four Mining Company, CNX Marine Terminals Inc., CNX Gas, CNX Funding, CONSOL Energy Inc., Marketstreet, Liberty Street, PNC, and BNS (as amended, supplemented, restated and/or otherwise modified from time to time, the "RPA").
 
As of the Effective Time (defined below): (A) CNX Gas ceases to be (i) an Originator under the Sale Agreement and (ii) a Sub-Servicer under the RPA, and (B) all liens on assets of CNX Gas under the Sale Agreement and the RPA are terminated.
 
This Originator Release shall become effective upon each of the following conditions being completed to the satisfaction of PNC and BNS (the "Effective Time"):
 
 
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Originator Release as of the 8th day of August, 2005.
 
 

Exhibit 10.78
 
 
 
 
 
THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 4, dated as of August 8, 2005 (this "Supplemental Indenture No. 4"), by and among CONSOL ENERGY INC., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), the Guarantors listed on hereto and THE BANK OF NOVA SCOTIA TRUST COMPANY OF NEW YORK, a New York trust company, as trustee under the Indenture referred to below (the "Trustee").
Schedule
I
 
 
WHEREAS, the Company has heretofore executed and delivered to the Trustee an Indenture dated as of March 7, 2002 (the "Indenture"), a Supplemental Indenture No. 1 dated as of March 7, 2002, a Supplemental Indenture No. 2 dated as of September 30, 2003 and a Supplemental Indenture No. 3 dated as of April 15, 2005 (such Supplemental Indentures, collectively, the "Supplemental Indentures") providing for the issuance of the 7.875% Notes due 2012 in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000;
 
WHEREAS, Article IX of the Indenture provides for various matters with respect to any series of Securities issued under the Indenture to be established in an indenture supplemental to the Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, Section 9.01(a)(12) of the Indenture provides that the Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Trustee may enter into an indenture supplemental to the Indenture to provide for the release of a Guarantor Subsidiary in respect of its Subsidiary Guarantee pursuant to Article XI of the Indenture;
 
WHEREAS, all the conditions and requirements necessary to make this Supplemental Indenture No. 4, when duly executed and delivered, a valid and binding agreement in accordance with its terms and for the purposes herein expressed, have been performed and fulfilled.
NOW THEREFORE, THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 4 WITNESSETH:
 
For and in consideration of the premises, the Company, the Guarantor Subsidiaries and the Trustee mutually covenant and agree for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders of the Securities of such series as follows:
 
 
SECTION 1.1 . This Supplemental Indenture No. 4 constitutes an integral part of the Indenture.
Relation to Indenture
 
SECTION 1.2 . For all purposes of this Supplemental Indenture No. 4:
Rules of Construction
 
(a) capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings specified in the Indenture;
 
(b) all references herein to Articles and Sections, unless otherwise specified, refer to the corresponding Articles and Sections of this Supplemental Indenture No. 4;
 
(c) the terms "herein," "hereof," "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Supplemental Indenture No. 4; and
 
(d) in the event of a conflict with the definition of terms in the Indenture, the definitions in this Supplemental Indenture No. 4 shall control.
 
 
SECTION 2.1 . Effective as of the date hereof, each of CNX Gas Company LLC and Cardinal States Gathering Company is released from its obligations under its Subsidiary Guarantee.
Releases
 
SECTION 2.2 . Effective as of the date hereof, (i) the Guarantor Subsidiaries listed on of the Indenture shall be as set forth on attached hereto and (ii) the "Guarantors" as defined in the Supplemental Indentures shall mean those subsidiaries of the Company listed on attached hereto.
Guarantor Subsidiaries and Guarantors
Schedule
I
Schedule
I
Schedule
I
 
 
SECTION 3.1 . The Indenture, as supplemented and amended by the Supplemental Indentures and this Supplemental Indenture No. 4, is in all respects hereby adopted, ratified and confirmed.
Ratification
 
SECTION 3.2 . The recitals contained herein are made by the Company and the Guarantors, and the Trustee assumes no liability for the correctness thereof. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Supplemental Indenture No. 4.
Trustee Not Liable for Recitals
 
SECTION 3.3 . This Supplemental Indenture No. 4 may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Counterparts
 
SECTION 3.4 . THIS SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURE NO. 4 SHALL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, AND FOR ALL PURPOSES SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF SAID STATE.
Governing Law
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Supplemental Indenture No. 4 to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written.
 


