FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20051115170635.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on November 14, 2005 that is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The attached press release is incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibit.
 
Exhibit 99.1      Press release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated November 14, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: November 15, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH (November 14, 2005)  Based on the most recent engineering assessments of remaining repair work, CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX) estimates the completion date for repairs of the skip hoist at the Buchanan Mine in Virginia to be mid-to-late December compared with an earlier estimate of mid-November.
 
The lower level of the shaft was not completely accessible for inspection until recently when hazardous situations at higher levels in the shaft were repaired and eliminated. It was discovered that the lower level of the shaft and skip hoisting structure required replacement rather than repair of a greater portion of the structure than originally anticipated. As a consequence, additional time was required to demolish and remove existing parts of the hoist structure. The remaining time is needed to re-install replacement structure. All materials needed to complete the work are on site.
 
The skip hoist, the device that lifts coal from underground to the surface, was damaged in an accident on September 16, 2005, forcing the mine to suspend coal production. From top to bottom, the entire skip hoist structure, which is housed within and on top of a 26-foot diameter vertical concrete shaft, is approximately 1,780 feet high, the equivalent of a 148-story building.
 
The Buchanan Mine produces approximately 400,000 tons per month of low-volatile metallurgical-grade coal that is sold to domestic and international steelmakers who use the coal to make coke. Letters are being sent to Buchanan customers updating them on the situation. The force majeure provision in the sales contracts has been invoked during the period when the mine is idle.
 
Despite the change in the expected restart of the Buchanan Mine, CONSOL Energy reaffirms its earlier coal production guidance of 17 million to 18 million tons for the quarter ending December 31, 2005.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by magazine. CONSOL Energy companies have received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for innovative
Fortune
reclamation practices in 2004, as well as 2002 and 2003. In 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


