FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050609170341.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On June 3, 2005, CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") entered into an Employment Agreement (the "Employment Agreement") with J. Brett Harvey, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer, and member of the Company's Board of Directors. Unless sooner terminated, the Employment Agreement has a three year term, and unless sooner terminated, is automatically extended for additional one year terms thereafter. The Company's Compensation Committee and Board of Directors have approved the Employment Agreement. The Employment Agreement supersedes in its entirety the letter agreement dated December 11, 1997, as amended, relating to Mr. Harvey's employment and service as a director of the Company but does not alter the Change in Control Severance Agreement dated July 21, 2003 (the "CIC Agreement") currently in place between the Company and Mr. Harvey.
 
Under the Employment Agreement, the Company pays Mr. Harvey an annual gross base salary of not less than $850,000. This salary was effective as of April 22, 2005. Under the Employment Agreement, Mr. Harvey is eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan on terms established from time to time by the Board, provided that Mr. Harvey's annual target bonus under that plan will not be less than 100% of his then current base salary. During the term of the Employment Agreement, he is also eligible to participate in any Company long term incentive plan.
 
In April 2005, Mr. Harvey was issued a stock option exercisable for 60,368 shares of common stock and a restricted stock unit award agreement under which 22,396 shares of common stock were subject pursuant to the Company's standard form option award agreement and restricted stock unit award agreement which have been previously filed with the SEC. Additionally, for 2005, contingent upon the Company achieving certain net income targets for 2005, Mr. Harvey is entitled to receive grants of options and restricted stock units, under the Company's long term stock incentive plan and subject to the terms of the plan, which we value at up to $1,019,000.
 
During his employment term, Mr. Harvey is entitled to participate in all employee benefit and fringe benefit plans and arrangements made available by the Company to its executives and key management employees upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the applicable plan or arrangement. Mr. Harvey will receive a credit for eleven additional years of service under the Company's Employee Retirement Plan (the "ERP") and the retiree medical plan, which benefits represent his years of service at PacifiCorp Energy Inc. and its affiliates ("PacifiCorp"). If the Company cannot provide to Mr. Harvey the credit under the ERP, the Company is obligated to provide equivalent benefits to Mr. Harvey under a supplemental retirement plan. The amount of any pension benefits payable to Mr. Harvey pursuant to PacifiCorp pension plans will be deducted from benefits paid by the Company to Mr. Harvey under the ERP or supplemental retirement plan, as applicable.
 
As more fully described in the Employment Agreement and subject to the CIC Agreement, if Mr. Harvey resigns for good reason (as defined in the Employment Agreement) or is terminated without cause (as defined in the Employment Agreement) and in each case he enters into a general release of claims reasonably satisfactory to the Company, he is entitled to receive severance payments in the form of (i) his then base salary through the date of termination and any annual bonus awarded in accordance with the Company's bonus program but not yet paid, (ii) an amount equal to two times his then current base salary and two times the target annual bonus amount (receipt of these payments are subject to Mr. Harvey's compliance with the confidentiality, non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions set forth in the Employment Agreement), (iii) payment of his pro-rata portion of his target bonus in the year of termination, (iv) payment of all accrued but unused vacation time and (v) reasonable outplacement assistance services for seeking other employment. If Mr. Harvey's employment is terminated as a result of a termination of employment as specified in the immediately preceding sentence, he and his dependents will continue to receive his medical insurance benefits from the Company, on terms substantially comparable to terms of the Company's medical plan, for up to twenty four months following the termination date. The Employment Agreement also contains certain confidentiality, non-solicitation, non-competition and indemnification provisions. The confidentiality provisions survive the termination of Mr. Harvey's employment with the Company. As more fully set forth in the Employment Agreement, the non-competition and non-solicitation provisions survive for a period of two years following the termination of his employment.
 
The foregoing is merely a summary of the material terms of the Employment Agreement and does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by the Employment Agreement, a copy of which is included as Exhibit 10.65 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: June 9, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.65
 
 
EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("") dated as of June 3, 2005 between CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") and J. Brett Harvey (the "").
Agreement
Company
Executive
 
WHEREAS, the Executive presently serves as a Director on the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") and is employed as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company:
 
WHEREAS, the Executive and the Company entered into the Letter Agreement, dated December 11, 1997, and subsequently amended April 5, 2000, relating to the terms and conditions of Executive's employment and service as a Director of the Company (the "Letter Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive entered into a Change in Control Severance Agreement, dated as of July 21, 2003 (the "Change in Control Agreement");
 
WHEREAS, the Board recognizes that the Executive's contribution to the growth and success of the Company has been substantial and the Board desires to provide for the continued employment of the Executive and to make certain changes in the Executive's employment arrangements with the Company which the Board has determined will reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication to the Company of the Executive as a member of the Company's management, in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders;
 
WHEREAS, the Executive is willing to commit himself to continue to serve the Company, on the terms and conditions herein provided.
 
In order to effect the foregoing, the Company and the Executive wish to enter into an employment agreement on the terms and conditions set forth below. Accordingly, in consideration of the premises and the respective covenants and agreements of the parties herein contained, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. . For purposes of this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings set forth below:
Definitions
 
means (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by the Company, (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest, and (iii) an affiliate of the Company as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Affiliate"
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.01.
Base Salary
"" means (a) gross negligence in the performance of the Executive's duties which results in material financial harm to the Company; (b) the Executive's conviction of, or plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, (i) any felony, or (ii) any misdemeanor involving fraud, embezzlement or theft; (c) the Executive's intentional failure or refusal to perform his duties and responsibilities with the Company, without the same being corrected within fifteen (15) days after being given written notice thereof; (d) the material breach by the Executive of any of the covenants contained in Articles 6 or 7 of this Agreement; (e) the Executive's willful violation of any material provision of the Company's code of conduct for executives and management employees; or (f) the Executive's willful engagement in conduct that is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company, monetarily or otherwise. The Executive may be terminated for Cause hereunder only by majority vote of all members of the Board (other than the Executive), which vote is communicated to the Executive in writing.
Cause
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Code
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.07.
Date of Termination
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 2.01.
Employment Period
 
"" means, without the Executive's written consent, (a) the material diminution of the Executive's duties or responsibilities, including the assignment of any duties and responsibilities materially inconsistent with his position, without the same being corrected within fifteen (15) days after the Executive gives written notice thereof; (b) a reduction in the Executive's Base Salary; (c) a material reduction in the Executive's annual target bonus opportunity (excluding any reduction that is generally applicable to all or substantially all executive officers of the Company), without the same being corrected within fifteen (15) days after the Executive gives written notice thereof; (d) a material reduction in the overall level of employee benefits (including long-term incentive opportunities) provided to the Executive (excluding any reduction that is generally applicable to all or substantially all executive officers of the Company), without the same being corrected within fifteen (15) days after the Executive gives written notice thereof; (e) the failure to obtain a written assumption of this Agreement by any person acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of the Company prior to such acquisition; (f) the relocation of the Executive's work location to a location more than fifty (50) miles from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; or (g) the Company giving the Executive notice of nonextension of the term of this Agreement in accordance with Section 5.01 solely at either the end of the initial three year term or the end of the first one year extension of the term under Section 5.01 (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not at the end of any further extension of the term); , , that, notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Executive must give written notice of his intention to terminate his employment for Good Reason within sixty (60) days after the event or omission which constitutes Good Reason, and any failure to give such written notice within such period will result in a waiver by the Executive of his right to terminate for Good Reason as a result of such act or omission.
Good Reason
provided
however
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 5.06.
Notice of Termination
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, including a "group" as defined in Section 13(d).
"Person"
 
"" means the Executive becomes permanently disabled within the meaning of the long term disability plan of the Company applicable to the Executive under circumstances whereby the Executive is entitled to receive immediate benefits thereunder.
Permanent Disability
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 4.05.
Reimbursable Expenses
 
means the counties, towns, cities, states or other political subdivisions of any country in which the Company or its Affiliates operates or does business.
"Restricted Territory"
 
 
 
SECTION 2.01. . The Company shall continue to employ the Executive, and the Executive shall continue employment with the Company, upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement for the period beginning June 3, 2005 (the date of the beginning of such period to be referred to herein as the "Start Date") and ending as provided in Section 5.01 (the "").
Employment
Employment Period
 
 
 
SECTION 3.01. . During the Employment Period, the Executive shall continue to serve as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and will be nominated for re-election to the Board. In such capacity, the Executive shall have such responsibilities, powers and duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the Board; that such responsibilities, powers and duties are substantially consistent with those customarily assigned to individuals serving in such positions at comparable companies or as may be reasonably required by the conduct of the business of the Company. During the Employment Period the Executive shall devote substantially all of his working time and efforts to the business and affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries. The Executive shall not directly or indirectly render any services of a business, commercial or professional nature to any other Person or organization, whether for compensation or otherwise, without the prior written consent of the Company; , , that nothing in this Agreement shall preclude the Executive from managing his personal investments or serving as a director of a not-for-profit organization, so long as such activities do not interfere with the Executive's performance of his duties hereunder.
Position and Duties
provided
provided
however
 
 
 
SECTION 4.01. . During the Employment Period, the Executive's base salary will be not less than $850,000 per annum (the ""). The Base Salary will
Base Salary
Base Salary
 
be payable in accordance with the normal payroll practices of the Company. Annually during the Employment Period the Board shall review with the Executive his job performance and compensation, and if deemed appropriate by the Board, in its discretion, the Executive's Base Salary may be increased but not decreased and, if so increased, such adjusted Base Salary shall become the new Base Salary and shall not thereafter during the Employment Period be decreased.
 
SECTION 4.02. During the Employment Period, in addition to the Base Salary, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in an annual bonus plan on terms established from time to time by the Board; , , that (i) the Executive's target annual bonus will be not less than 100% of his Base Salary, and (ii) the Executive's bonus will be paid at the same time as bonuses are paid for other senior executive officers.
Bonuses.
provided
however
 
SECTION 4.03. During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be eligible to participate in any long term incentive compensation plan maintained by the Company on the terms established from time to time by the Board or the Compensation Committee of the Board, as applicable.
Long Term Incentive Plans.
 
SECTION 4.04. During the Employment Term the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all employee benefit and fringe benefit plans and arrangements made available by the Company to its executives and key management employees upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the applicable plan or arrangement; , , that the Executive will be credited with eleven (11) years of additional service credit under the Company's Employee Retirement Plan (the "ERP") and the Company's retiree medical plan, representing the Executive's years of service at PacifiCorp Energy Inc. and its affiliates ("PacifiCorp"); , , that, to the extent such additional service credit cannot be provided under the ERP, the Company shall provide such benefits under a supplemental retirement plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall be deducted from the benefits payable to the Executive under the ERP or a supplemental retirement plan an amount equal to the pension benefits payable to the Executive pursuant to any pension benefit plans of PacifiCorp. The Executive will be entitled to a maximum of five (5) weeks of paid vacation annually during the Employment Period.
Benefits.
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
SECTION 4.05. The Company shall reimburse the Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred by him in the course of performing his duties under this Agreement which are consistent with the Company's policies in effect from time to time with respect to travel, entertainment and other business expenses (""), subject to the Company's requirements with respect to reporting and documentation of expenses. In addition, the Company shall reimburse the Executive for all reasonable expenses incurred by him for legal advice in finalizing this Agreement, subject to a maximum of $30,000.
Expenses.
Reimbursable Expenses
 
 
 
SECTION 5.01. . The Employment Period will terminate on the third anniversary of the Start Date unless further extended or sooner terminated as hereinafter
Term
 
provided. Commencing on the third anniversary of the Start Date and on each anniversary thereafter, the Employment Period will automatically be extended for one (1) additional year, unless not later than ninety (90) days immediately preceding such anniversary, the Company or the Executive shall have given written notice to the other that it does not wish to extend the Agreement.
 
SECTION 5.02. If the Employment Period shall be terminated prior to the expiration of the third anniversary of the Start Date (or the end of the Employment Period as extended pursuant to Section 5.01) (a) by the Executive for Good Reason, or (b) by the Company not for Cause, provided the Executive has entered into and not revoked a general release of claims reasonably satisfactory to the Company, the Executive shall be paid solely (i) Base Salary through the Date of Termination and any annual bonus awarded in accordance with the Company's bonus program but not yet paid; (ii) an amount equal to two (2) times the Base Salary and two (2) times the target annual bonus amount, provided that the Executive shall be entitled to any unpaid amounts only if the Executive has not breached and does not breach the provisions of Sections 6.01 and 7.01 hereof; (iii) a pro-rata portion of the Executive's target bonus for the year of termination, calculated by reference to the number of days during the bonus year during which he was employed by the Company; (iv) payment for all accrued, but unused, vacation time through the Date of Termination; (v) payment for reasonable outplacement assistance services for the Executive associated with seeking another employment position; and (vi) promptly following any such termination, the Executive shall be reimbursed all Reimbursable Expenses incurred by the Executive prior to such termination. The amounts described in clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above will be paid in a single lump sum within ten (10) days after the Date of Termination; , , that no amount shall be paid until expiration of the 7-day statutory revocation period with respect to the release referred to in this Section 5.02 above. The terms of all Company restricted stock units, stock options and other equity based awards will be as set forth in the applicable award agreements, and medical benefits shall be as provided in Section 5.05 below. The Executive's entitlements under any other benefit plan or program shall be as determined thereunder, except that severance benefits shall not be payable under any other plan or program. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a termination of employment results in severance benefits being paid under the Change in Control Agreement (or any successor thereto), no amounts or benefits will be paid to the Executive under this Section 5.02.
Termination for Good Reason or Without Cause.
provided
however
 
SECTION 5.03. If the Employment Period shall be terminated prior to the expiration of the third anniversary of the Start Date (or the end of the Employment Period as extended pursuant to Section 5.01) due to the Executive's death or Permanent Disability, the Executive (or his heirs, estate or legal representative) shall be entitled solely to (i) Base Salary through the Date of Termination and any annual bonus awarded in accordance with the Company's bonus program but not yet paid; (ii) a pro-rata portion of the Executive's target bonus for the year of termination, calculated by reference to the number of days during the bonus year during which he was employed by the Company; (iii) payment for all accrued, but unused, vacation time through the Date of Termination; and (iv) promptly following any such termination, the Executive (or his heirs, estate of legal representative) shall be reimbursed all Reimbursable Expenses incurred by the Executive prior to such termination. The amounts described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) above will be paid in a single lump sum within ten (10) days after the Date of Termination. The terms
Termination Due to Death or Permanent Disability.
 
of all Company restricted stock units, stock options and other equity based awards will be as set forth in the applicable award agreements, and the Executive's entitlements under any other benefit plan or program shall be as determined thereunder.
 
SECTION 5.04. If the Employment Period shall be terminated prior to the expiration of the third anniversary of the Start Date (or the end of the Employment Period as extended pursuant to Section 5.01) (a) by the Company for Cause, or (b) by the Executive other than for Good Reason and not due to the Executive's death or Permanent Disability, the Executive shall be entitled, within ten (10) days following the Date of Termination, to receive solely (i) the Base Salary through the Date of Termination; (ii) payment for all accrued, but unused, vacation time through the Date of Termination; and (iii) reimbursement of all Reimbursable Expenses incurred by the Executive prior to such termination. The Executive's rights under any benefit plan or program shall be as set forth thereunder.
Termination for Cause or Other Than Good Reason.
 
SECTION 5.05. If the Employment Period is terminated as a result of a termination of employment as specified in Section 5.02, the Executive and his dependents shall continue to receive his medical insurance benefits from the Company, on terms substantially comparable to the terms of the Company's medical plan, for a period equal to the lesser of (x) twenty four (24) months following the Date of Termination or (y) until the Executive is provided by another employer with benefits substantially comparable (with no preexisting condition limitations) to the benefits provided by the Company's medical plan. For purposes of enforcing this offset provision, the Executive shall have a duty to promptly inform the Company in writing as to the terms and conditions of any medical benefits provided in connection with any subsequent employment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the benefits provided in this Section 5.05 shall not in any way modify, limit, or waive any rights the Executive or his dependents may have with respect to any retiree or other post-employment medical benefits, it being agreed that this Section 5.05 provides a minimum amount of coverage that must be provided, and not a replacement of any coverage to which the Executive or his dependents may otherwise be entitled.
Medical Benefits.
 
SECTION 5.06. . Any termination by the Company for Permanent Disability or Cause or without Cause or by the Executive with or without Good Reason shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto. For purposes of this Agreement, a "" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of employment under the provision indicated.
Notice of Termination
Notice of Termination
 
SECTION 5.07. "" shall mean (a) if the Employment Period is terminated as a result of a Permanent Disability, the next business day after a Notice of Termination is given following the Permanent Disability; (b) if the Employment Period is terminated as a result of death, the date of death; and (c) if the Employment Period is terminated for any other reason, the later of the date the Notice of Termination is given or the end of any applicable correction period.
Date of Termination.
Date of Termination
 
SECTION 5.08. The Executive shall have no duty to seek new employment or other duty to mitigate following a termination of employment as described in Section 5.02 above, and no compensation or benefits described in Section 5.02 shall be subject to reduction or offset on account of any subsequent compensation, other than as provided in Section 5.05.
No Duty to Mitigate.
 
SECTION 5.09. . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Executive shall not be required by any general release required under Section 5.02 above to release claims that the Executive may have against the Company for reimbursement of ordinary and necessary business expenses incurred by him during the course of his employment, claims that arise after the effective date of the release, any rights the Executive may have to enforce Sections 5.02 of this Agreement, and claims for which the Executive is entitled to be indemnified under the Company's charter, by-laws or under applicable law or pursuant to the Company's directors' and officer's liability insurance policies.
Release
 
 
 
SECTION 6.01. . The Executive and the Company agree that certain materials, including, but not limited to, information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financial methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, the Executive will not at any time during or after the Executive's employment with the Company disclose or use for the Executive's own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any Person, other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets. The foregoing obligations imposed by this Section 6.01 will not apply (i) in the course of the business of and for the benefit of the Company, (ii) if such information has become, through no fault of the Executive, generally known to the public, or (iii) if the Executive is required by law to make disclosure (after giving the Company notice and an opportunity to contest such requirement). The Executive agrees that upon termination of employment with the Company for any reason, the Executive will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, paper, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates. The Executive further agrees that the Executive will not retain or use for the Executive's account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets
 
 
 
SECTION 7.01. . (a) The Executive acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and its Affiliates and accordingly agrees that during the term of the Executive's employment and for a period of two (2) years after the termination thereof:
Noncompetition
 
(i) the Executive will not directly or indirectly engage in any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates, including, but not limited to, where such engagement is as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 1% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), consultant, advisor, agent or sales representative, in any Restricted Territory;
 
(ii) the Executive will not perform or solicit the performance of services for any customer or client of the Company or any of its Affiliates;
 
(iii) the Executive will not directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates to (1) engage in any activity or conduct which is prohibited pursuant to this Section 7.01, or (2) terminate such employee's employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Moreover, the Executive will not directly or indirectly employ or offer employment (in connection with any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates) to any person who was employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for a period of at least twelve (12) months; and
 
(iv) the Executive will not directly or indirectly assist others in engaging in any of the activities which are prohibited under clauses (i)-(iii) of this Section 7.01(a) above.
 
(b) The covenant contained in Section 7.01(a)(i) above is intended to be construed as a series of separate covenants, one for each county, town, city and state or other political subdivision of a Restricted Territory. Except for geographic coverage, each such separate covenant shall be deemed identical in terms to the covenant contained in the preceding subsections. If, in any judicial proceeding, the court shall refuse to enforce any of the separate covenants (or any part thereof) deemed included in such subsections, then such unenforceable covenant (or such part) shall be deemed to be eliminated from this Agreement for the purpose of those proceedings to the extent necessary to permit the remaining separate covenants (or portions thereof) to be enforced.
 
(c) It is expressly understood and agreed that although the Executive and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 7.01 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against the Executive, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
 
 
SECTION 8.01. The Executive acknowledges that (a) the covenants contained in Sections 6.01 and 7.01 hereof are reasonable, (b) the Executive's services are unique, and (c) a breach or threatened breach by him of any of his covenants and agreements with the Company contained in Sections 6.01 or 7.01 hereof could cause irreparable harm to the Company for which it would have no adequate remedy at law. Accordingly, and in addition to any remedies which the Company may have at law, in the event of an actual or threatened breach by the Executive of his covenants and agreements contained in Sections 6.01 or 7.01 hereof, the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, without a requirement to post bond, out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further violation of such promises by the Executive or the Executive's employees, partners or agents.
Equitable Relief.
 
 
 
SECTION 9.01. (a) The Company agrees that if the Executive is made a party, or is threatened to be made a party, to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that he is or was a director, officer or employee of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans, the Executive shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company to the fullest extent permitted or authorized by applicable law and the Company's certificate of incorporation or bylaws, against all cost, expense, liability and loss (including, without limitation, attorney's fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by the Executive in connection therewith, and such indemnification shall continue as to the Executive even if he has ceased to be a director, member, employee or agent of the Company or other entity and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive's heirs, executors and administrators.
Indemnification.
 
During the Employment Period, the Company shall keep in place a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy (or policies) providing comprehensive coverage to the Executive to the same extent that the Company provides such coverage for any other officer or director of the Company and, after the expiration of the Employment Period, the Executive shall be entitled to such coverage to the same extent that the Company provides such coverage for any other current or former officer or director of the Company.
(b) D&O Insurance.
 
 
 
SECTION 10.01. The Company will have all rights and remedies set forth in this Agreement, all rights and remedies which the Company has been granted at any time
Remedies.
 
under any other agreement or contact and all of the rights which the Company has under any law. The Company will be entitled to enforce such rights specifically, without posting a bond or other security, to recover damages by reason of any breach of any provision of this Agreement and to exercise all other rights granted by law. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
 
SECTION 10.02. The provisions of this Agreement may be amended or waived only by a written agreement executed and delivered by the Company and the Executive. No other course of dealing between the parties to this Agreement or any delay in exercising any rights hereunder will operate as a waiver of any rights of any such parties.
Consent to Amendments.
 
SECTION 10.03. All covenants and agreements contained in this Agreement by or on behalf of any of the parties hereto will bind and inure to the benefit of the respective successors and assigns of the parties hereto whether so expressed or not, that the Executive may not assign his rights or delegate his obligations under this Agreement without the written consent of the Company and the Company may assign this Agreement only to a successor to all or substantially all of its assets.
Successors and Assigns.
provided
 
SECTION 10.04. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision will be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of this Agreement.
Severability.
 
SECTION 10.05. This Agreement may be executed simultaneously in two or more counterparts, any one of which need not contain the signatures of more than one party, but all of which counterparts taken together will constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 10.06. The descriptive headings of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and do not constitute a part of this Agreement.
Descriptive Headings.
 
SECTION 10.07. All notices, demands or other communications to be given or delivered under or by reason of the provisions of this Agreement will be in writing and will be deemed to have been given when delivered personally to the recipient, two (2) business days after the date when sent to the recipient by reputable express courier service (charges prepaid) or four (4) business days after the date when mailed to the recipient by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested and postage prepaid. Such notices, demands and other communications will be sent to the Executive and to the Company at the addresses set forth below.
Notices.
 
 
 
or to such other address or to the attention of such other person as the recipient party has specified by prior written notice to the sending party.
 
SECTION 10.08. The Company may withhold from any amounts payable under this Agreement such federal, state, local or foreign taxes as shall be required to be withheld pursuant to any applicable law or regulation.
Withholding.
 
SECTION 10.09. This Agreement will not confer any rights or remedies upon any person other than the Company, the Executive and their respective heirs, executors, successors and assigns.
No Third Party Beneficiary.
 
SECTION 10.10. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement among the parties and supersedes any prior understandings, agreements or representations by or among the parties, written or oral, that may have related in any way to the subject matter hereof, including, without limitation, the Letter Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Change in Control Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, in accordance with its terms.
Entire Agreement.
 
SECTION 10.11. . In the event that the Executive institutes any legal action to enforce his rights under, or to recover damages for breach of this Agreement, the Executive, if he is the prevailing party, shall be entitled to recover from the Company reasonable attorneys' fees and disbursements incurred by him.
Legal Fees and Expenses
 
SECTION 10.12. The language used in this Agreement will be deemed to be the language chosen by the parties to express their mutual intent, and no rule of strict construction will be applied against any party. Any reference to any federal, state, local or foreign statute or law will be deemed also to refer to all rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, unless the context requires otherwise. The use of the word "" in this Agreement means "including without limitation" and is intended by the parties to be by way of example rather than limitation.
Construction.
including
 
SECTION 10.13. Sections 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05, 5.08, 6.01, 7.01, 8.01, 9.01 and Article 10 hereof will survive and continue in full force in accordance with their
Survival.
 
terms notwithstanding any termination of the Employment Period, and the Agreement shall otherwise remain in full force to the extent necessary to enforce any rights and obligations arising hereunder during the Employment Period.
 
SECTION 10.14. ALL QUESTIONS CONCERNING THE CONSTRUCTION, VALIDITY AND INTERPRETATION OF THIS AGREEMENT WILL BE GOVERNED BY THE INTERNAL LAW OF PENNSYLVANIA, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.
GOVERNING LAW.
 
SECTION 10.15. The Company shall, to the extent necessary and only to the extent necessary, modify the timing of delivery of severance benefits hereunder if it is determined that the timing would subject the severance benefits to the additional tax and/or interest assessed under Section 409A of the Code.
Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date and year first above written.
 
 


