FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050919165632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued the press release dated September 19, 2005 that is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The press release is incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
Exhibit 99.1     Press Release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated September 19, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: September 19, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
Contact: Thomas F. Hoffman
(412) 831-4060
 
 
PITTSBURGH (September 19, 2005)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX) has idled the Buchanan Mine, near Mavisdale, Virginia, following a problem with the mine's skip hoist mechanism that caused a loaded skip and an unloaded skip to fall to the bottom of the mine shaft. No one was injured during the incident and, with the exception of the hoist shaft, all other areas of the mine were unaffected by the incident.
 
The skip hoist is the mechanism used at the Buchanan Mine to lift coal vertically from the bottom of the mineshaft to the surface. Two counter-balanced buckets, called skips, move up and down in opposite direction from one another, alternately loading and unloading coal. The skips at the Buchanan Mine hold approximately 24 tons of coal. If the skip hoist is inoperable, coal production operations have to be suspended.
 
The problem occurred Friday evening, September 16, 2005, when the braking mechanism on the hoist apparently failed to hold a loaded skip at the surface before it could dump its load. The loaded skip fell approximately 1,600 feet back through the shaft to the bottom. Simultaneously, the empty skip was propelled upward to the surface as the loaded skip fell, causing the empty skip to strike the top of the hoist mechanism before also falling back to the shaft bottom.
 
Crews are now attempting to assess the damage to the skips, hoist ropes and the steel hoisting structure housed within the concrete shaft. The assessment is expected to take several days. Once the assessment has been completed, the company expects to provide an estimate of time necessary to repair the damage and to resume production. It is expected that repairs will take at least several weeks. While repairs are being made, it is anticipated that approximately 200 mine employees will be laid off.
 
The Buchanan Mine produces approximately 350,000 to 400,000 tons per month of low-volatile, metallurgical-grade coal that is sold to domestic and international steelmakers who use the coal to make coke. The company expects to send letters to Buchanan customers invoking the provision of the sales contracts during the period when the mine is idle.
force majeure
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award.
 
Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
www.consolenergy.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


