FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20051222171101.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on December 21, 2005 that is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The attached press release is incorporated by reference into this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibit.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: December 22, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
For Immediate Release
Contact: Thomas F. Hoffman
                (412) 831-4060
 
 
PITTSBURGH (December 21, 2005)  The CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX) Board of Directors has authorized a share repurchase program of up to $300 million of the company's common stock during a 24-month period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2007. The repurchases would be made from time to time, and would be based on a number of factors, including: the company's financial outlook; the price of the company's common stock; business conditions, including cash flows and internal capital requirements; as well as alternative investment options.
 
"The approval of a share repurchase program by the Board gives us another tool with which to deliver value to our shareholders," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "In the past two years, we have significantly improved our financial performance and enhanced our financial flexibility. Notwithstanding an excellent list of potential capital projects that will increase the value of the company, the Board believes that we also can use the repurchase program as a way to further reward our shareholders."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by magazine. CONSOL Energy companies have received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for innovative reclamation practices in 2004, as well as 2002 and 2003. In 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Fortune
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may,"
"will," "would," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


