FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050819164458.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On August 16, 2005, the Board of Directors of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") determined that Nicholas J. DeIuliis and Ronald E. Smith, in their capacities as officers of the Company's subsidiary CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas"), are executive officers of the Company as the term is defined under Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Messrs. DeIuliis and Smith accepted positions, effective as of August 8, 2005, as the Chief Executive Officer and President and Chief Operating Officer, respectively, with CNX Gas upon terms and conditions summarized below.
 
Pursuant to Mr. DeIuliis' oral employment arrangement with CNX Gas, he is receiving an annual base salary of $400,000 and the opportunity to earn a short-term incentive award equal to 100% of his base salary if target performance is achieved, with the ability to earn up to 300% of his base salary if target performance is exceeded by a certain threshold. At the discretion of the Board of Directors of CNX Gas, Mr. DeIuliis may also receive a one-time bonus in an amount determined by the Board of Directors of CNX Gas. Mr. DeIuliis also received an initial one time option grant to purchase 281,481 shares of CNX Gas common stock and will receive, beginning in 2006, annual grants with an aggregate dollar value of $750,000, payable 75% in the form of CNX Gas options and 25% in the form of CNX Gas restricted stock units. Pursuant to a written offer letter with CNX Gas, Mr. Smith is receiving an annual base salary of $380,000 and the opportunity to earn a short-term incentive award equal to 75% of his base salary if target performance is achieved, with the ability to earn up to 300% of his base salary if target performance is exceeded by a certain threshold. At the discretion of the Board of Directors of CNX Gas, Mr. Smith may also receive a one-time bonus in an amount determined by the Board of Directors of CNX Gas. Mr. Smith also received an initial one time option grant to purchase 266,667 shares of CNX Gas common stock and will receive, beginning in 2006, annual grants with an aggregate dollar value of $630,000, payable 75% in the form of CNX Gas options and 25% in the form of CNX Gas restricted stock units.
 
The foregoing is merely a summary of the material terms of the summary of Mr. DeIuliis' employment terms and Mr. Smith's offer letter and do not purport to be complete, and are qualified in their entirety by the documents which are attached hereto as exhibits.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c)
Exhibits.
 
Exhibit 10.80    Summary of Employment Terms of Nicholas J. DeIuliis
 
Exhibit 10.81    Offer Letter to Ronald E. Smith
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 19, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 10.80
 
 

Exhibit 10.81
 
July 26, 2005
 
Mr. Ronald E. Smith
141 Druid Drive
McMurray, PA 15317
 
Dear Ron:
 
I am pleased to inform you that, if the Board of Consol Energy decides to go forward with the potential transaction involving the sale of securities in CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas"), it is expected that you will be offered the newly created position of Chief Operating Officer with CNX Gas. The terms and conditions of the offer would be as follows:
 
 
Welfare, disability and retirement benefit programs made available to you through CNX Gas as of the Effective Date will be substantially identical to those currently sponsored by CONSOL Energy. You will receive credit for your service recognized by CONSOL Energy (or its affiliates) under the benefit programs offered by CNX Gas in which you become a participant, subject to such adjustments or offsets, if any, necessary to avoid a duplication of benefits. As you are aware, the terms and conditions of these benefit programs and of your employment are subject to change at any time based on action by the sponsoring company with regard to the benefit programs and by CNX Gas with regard to the other terms and conditions of our employment.
 
This potential offer is contingent upon the CONSOL Energy and CNX Gas Boards of Directors giving final approval to the sale of CNX Gas common stock, the proceeds of which will be used to pay a special dividend to CONSOL Energy (the "Financing") in an amount equal to the total net proceeds from the Financing, the closing of the Financing, and your being named as the COO of CNX Gas in the final Offering Memorandum. As you are aware, the Financing is subject to final approval of both Boards of Directors, after the marketing of the potential transaction and after a final offering price is presented to each Board of Directors for approval.
I look forward to your participation in the initial and ongoing success of this exciting new venture. Please signify your acceptance to this offer by signing in the space provided below.
 
 
 
 
Accepted and Agreed to:
 
 
 


