FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050509140954.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 3, 2005, the shareholders of CONSOL Energy Inc. approved the amendment and restatement of the CONSOL Energy Equity Incentive Plan. A description of the material terms of the plan, as amended and restated, follows:
 
The plan is administered by the Board of Directors. Except with respect to certain awards made to non-employee directors of CONSOL Energy or any affiliate, the Board may delegate any or all authority for administration of the plan to a committee of the Board. The Board or the Committee may delegate to an executive officer of CONSOL Energy authority to administer those aspects of the plan that do not involve the designation of individuals to receive awards or decisions concerning the timing, amounts or other terms of awards. The Board or the committee has the authority to construe and interpret the plan, and to make all other determinations necessary or advisable for the administration of the plan. However, only the Board may amend or terminate the plan.
Administration.
 
The total number of shares of CONSOL Energy common stock with respect to which awards may be granted under the plan is 9,100,000, out of which 1,300,000 may be granted with respect to awards other than options. Subject to adjustment, the maximum number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted to any participant during a calendar year is 1,000,000 shares. The maximum annual number of shares in respect of which restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards and other stock-based awards may be granted under the plan to any participant is 325,000 and the maximum annual amount of any award settled in cash with respect to any participant is $2,000,000.
Shares Available for Awards; Limitations.
 
Officers, eligible directors, employee-directors and other employees or consultants of CONSOL Energy or any affiliate, who is not a member of the committee, are eligible to receive awards.
Eligibility.
 
The plan permits the granting of options, both incentive stock options (ISOs) and non-qualified stock options (NQOs), to purchase shares of CONSOL Energy common stock. The option exercise price for each share covered by an option, including ISOs and NQOs, must equal or exceed the fair market value of a share of CONSOL Energy common stock on the date the option is granted, and the term of the option may not exceed 10 years from the date of the grant.
Stock Options.
 
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) may be granted under the plan to any employee or eligible director of CONSOL Energy or any affiliate. SARs may be granted in tandem with another award, in addition to another award, or freestanding and
Stock Appreciation Rights.
unrelated to another award. SARs are not exercisable earlier than six months after the date granted. SARs must have grant prices no less than the fair market value of a share of CONSOL Energy common stock on the grant date and must have terms no longer than ten years.
 
Restricted stock and restricted stock units may also be granted under the plan to any employee or eligible director of CONSOL Energy or any affiliate. The Board determines the number of shares of restricted stock and/or the number of restricted stock units to be granted to each participant, the duration of the period during which, and the conditions under which, the restricted stock and restricted stock units may be forfeited to CONSOL Energy, and the other terms and conditions of such awards.
Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
Performance awards may also be granted under the plan to any employee or consultant of CONSOL Energy or any affiliate. A "Performance Award" consists of a right that is (1) denominated in cash or shares of CONSOL Energy common stock, (2) valued, as determined by the Board, in accordance with the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the Board shall establish, and (3) payable at such time and in the form as the Board determines. Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the performance period or on a deferred basis.
Performance Awards.
 
Other stock-based awards may also be granted under the plan. An "Other Stock-Based Award" consists of any right that is (1) not an award described above, and (2) an award of shares or an award denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into shares), as deemed by the Board to be consistent with the purposes of the plan.
Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
Upon initial election to the Board an eligible director receives a NQO to acquire 4,000 shares.
Awards to Eligible Directors.
 
Effective as of the date of each annual meeting of CONSOL Energy's shareholders at which directors are elected or re-elected to the Board, the plan provides that each eligible director who has not received an initial grant since the immediately preceding annual meeting of CONSOL Energy's shareholders is entitled to receive a NQO to acquire 2,500 shares (Annual Grant).
The plan may be amended, altered, suspended, discontinued, or terminated at any time; provided that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination will be made without shareholder approval if approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to comply. In addition, no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination may be made without shareholder approval if it would constitute a repricing of a stock option or a stock settled SAR.
Amendment and Termination.
 
The Board may waive any conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or alter, suspend, discontinue, cancel or terminate, any award granted, prospectively or retroactively; provided that any such waiver, amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuance, cancellation, or termination that would adversely affect the rights of any participant or any holder or beneficiary of any award previously granted does not to that extent become effective without the consent of the affected participant, holder, or beneficiary.
 
The plan, as amended and restated, became effective as of May 3, 2005 (Effective Date). No ISO may be granted under the plan after April 7, 2009 and no deferred stock unit or award other than an ISO may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date.
Term.
 
The plan has been designed to permit certain stock options granted under the 1999 Incentive Plan to satisfy the conditions of Section 162(m).
Deductibility of executive compensation.
 
The plan is described in detail in CONSOL Energy's proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Schedule 14A in connection with the annual meeting of shareholders held on May 3, 2005.
 
The foregoing description of the plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.61 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: May 5, 2005
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.61
 
 
Capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16 of the Plan.
 
1.    Purpose.
 
The purposes of the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan as amended and restated as set forth herein are to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by (i) attracting and retaining Eligible Directors, executive officers and other key employees and consultants of the Company and its Affiliates; (ii) motivating such individuals by means of performance-related incentives to achieve long-range performance goals; and (iii) enabling such individuals to participate in the long-term growth and financial success of the Company
 
2.    Administration.
 
(a)    .    The Plan shall be administered by the Board. Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Board by the Plan, the Board shall have full power and authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to an eligible Employee; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Board; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (ix) advance the lapse of any waiting period, accelerate any exercise date, waive or modify any restriction applicable to Awards (except those restrictions imposed by law); and (x) make any other determination and take any other action that the Board deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. The Board may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect, and it shall be the sole and final judge of such expediency.
Authority of Board
 
(b)    .    Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Board, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Affiliate, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any stockholder and any Employee.
Board Discretion Binding
 
(c)    .    Except with respect to Awards made pursuant to Section 10 to Eligible Directors, the Board may delegate to the Committee any or all authority for administration of the Plan. If authority is delegated to a Committee, all references to the Board of Directors in the Plan shall mean and relate to the Committee except (i) as otherwise provided by the Board of Directors and (ii) that only the Board of Directors may amend or terminate the Plan.
Delegation to Committee
 
(d)    .    The Board or the Committee, as applicable, may delegate to an executive officer of the Company authority to administer those aspects of the Plan that do not involve the designation of
Delegation to Officer
 
individuals to receive awards or decisions concerning the timing, amounts or other terms of awards. No officer to whom administrative authority has been delegated pursuant to this provision may waive or modify any restriction applicable to an award to such officer under the Plan.
 
(e)    .    No member of the Board or Committee shall be liable for any action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder.
No Liability
 
3.    Shares Available for Awards; Limitations.
 
(a)    .    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3(c), the total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan shall be 9,100,000, out of which 1,300,000 may be used with respect to Awards other than Options. The total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan with respect to Stock Options shall be 9,100,000. If, after the Effective Date, any Shares covered by an Award granted under the Plan, or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited, or otherwise terminates or is canceled without the delivery of Shares, then the Shares covered by such Award, or to which such Award relates, or the number of Shares otherwise counted against the aggregate number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted, to the extent of any such forfeiture, termination or cancellation, shall again become Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted.
Shares Available
 
(b)    .    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3(c), the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Participant during a calendar year shall be 1,000,000 Shares. The maximum annual number of shares in respect of which Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted under the Plan to any Participant is 325,000 and the maximum annual amount of any Award settled in cash with respect to any Participant is $2 million.
Limitations on Awards
 
(c)    .    In the event that the Board determines that any dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Board to be appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Board shall, in such manner as it may deem equitable, (i) adjust any or all of (1) the number of Shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted, (2) the maximum number of Shares subject to an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Plan, (3) the number of Shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (4) the grant or exercise price with respect to any Award; (ii) if deemed appropriate, provide for an equivalent award in respect of securities of the surviving entity of any merger, consolidation or other transaction or event having a similar effect; or (iii) if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; provided, in each case, that (A) with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Code, as from time to time amended and (B) with respect to any Award no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m), unless otherwise determined by the Board.
Adjustments
 
(d)    .    Any Shares underlying Substitute Awards shall not, unless required by Section 16, be counted against the Shares available for Awards under the Plan.
Substitute Awards
 
(e)    .    Any Shares delivered pursuant to an Award may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares.
Sources of Shares Deliverable under Awards
 
4.    Eligibility.
 
Any Employee, including any officer or employee-director of the Company or any Affiliate, who is not a member of the Committee, shall be eligible to be designated a Participant. Eligible Directors shall be eligible for Awards as described in Section 10.
 
5.    Stock Options.
 
(a)    .    Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Options shall be granted (provided that Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to employees of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Code Sections 424 (e) and (f)), the number of Shares to be covered by each Option, the option price and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option. The Board shall have the authority to grant Incentive Stock Options, or to grant Non-Qualified Stock Options, or to grant both types of options. In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and comply with such rules as may be prescribed by Section 422 of the Code, as from time to time amended, and any regulations implementing such statute.
Grant
 
(b)    .    The Board in its sole discretion shall establish the exercise price at the time each Option is granted. Except in the case of Substitute Awards, the exercise price of an Option may not be less than the Fair Market Value on the Grant Date.
Exercise Price
 
(c)    .    Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may, in its sole discretion, specify in the applicable Award Agreement or thereafter. The Board may impose such conditions with respect to the exercise of options, including without limitation, any relating to the application of federal or state securities laws, as it may deem necessary or advisable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the Grant Date.
Exercise
 
(d)    .    No Shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option until payment in full of the option price is received by the Company. Such payment may be made in cash, or its equivalent, or by exchanging, actually or constructively, Shares owned by the Participant (for any minimum period set forth in the Award Agreement or as may be required to achieve fixed accounting under then applicable U.S. GAAP and (which are not the subject of any pledge or other security interest), or by a combination of the foregoing, provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Shares so tendered to the Company as of the date of such tender is at least equal to such option price. A Participant may elect to pay all or any portion of the aggregate exercise price by having Shares with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price withheld by the Company or sold by a broker-dealer or, as provided in an Award Agreement, by having Shares withheld with such value by the Company. Shares that are withheld from an award to satisfy tax-withholding obligations, shares that are surrendered to fulfill tax obligations incurred under the Plan, and shares surrendered in payment of the option exercise price upon the exercise of an option will not be available for reissuance under the Plan. Shares that are purchased by the Company with proceeds that were paid to exercise options cannot be added to the share reserve.
Payment
 
(e)    .    The Board may provide in an Award Agreement for the automatic grant of a Restoration Option to a Participant who delivers Shares in payment of the exercise price of any Option granted hereunder in accordance with Section 5(d), or in the event that the withholding tax liability arising upon exercise of any such Option or option by a Participant is satisfied through the withholding by the Company of Shares otherwise deliverable upon exercise of the Option. The grant of a Restoration Option shall be subject to the satisfaction of such conditions or criteria as the Board in its sole discretion shall establish from time to time. A Restoration Option shall entitle the holder thereof to purchase a number of Shares equal to the number of such Shares so delivered or withheld upon exercise of the original Option. A Restoration Option shall have a per share exercise price of not less than 100% of the per Share Fair Market Value on the Grant Date of such Restoration Option and such other terms and conditions as the Board in its sole discretion shall determine.
Restoration Options
 
6.    Stock Appreciation Rights.
 
(a)    .    Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Stock Appreciation Right Award, the grant price thereof and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise thereof. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with another Award, in addition to another Award, or freestanding and unrelated to another Award. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with or in addition to an Award may be granted either at the same time as the Award or, except in the case of Incentive Stock Options, at a later time. Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be exercisable earlier than six months after the Grant Date, and shall have a grant price no less that the Fair Market value of Shares covered by the right on the Grant Date (except with respect to a Substitute Award).
Grant
 
(b)    .    A Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle the Participant to receive an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the grant price thereof. The Board shall determine whether a Stock Appreciation Right shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares. Stock Appreciation Rights to be settled in shares of Common Stock shall be counted in full against the number of shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Exercise Gain Shares issued upon settlement of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Exercise and Payment
 
(c)    .    Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board shall determine, at or after the grant of a Stock Appreciation Right, the term, (up to a maximum of ten years from the Grant Date), methods of exercise, methods and form of settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right. Any such determination by the Board may be changed by the Board from time to time and may govern the exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights granted or exercised prior to such determination as well as Stock Appreciation Rights granted or exercised thereafter. The Board may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it shall deem appropriate.
Other Terms and Conditions
 
7.    Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
(a)    .    Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock and/or the number of Restricted Stock Units to be granted to each Participant, the duration of the period during which, and the conditions under which, the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be forfeited to the Company, and the other terms and conditions of such Awards.
Grant
 
(b)    .    Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, except, in the case of Restricted Stock, as provided in the Plan or the applicable Award Agreements. Certificates issued in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited by such Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Company. Upon the lapse of the restrictions applicable to such Shares of Restricted Stock, the Company shall deliver such certificates to the Participant or the Participant's legal representative.
Transfer Restrictions
 
(c)    .    Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share. Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, other securities or other property, as determined in the sole discretion of the Board, upon the lapse of the restrictions applicable thereto, or otherwise in accordance with the applicable Award Agreement.
Payment
 
(d)    .    Dividends and other distributions paid on or in respect of any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units may be paid directly to the Participant, or may be reinvested in additional Shares of Restricted Stock or in additional Restricted Stock Units, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion.
Dividends and Distributions
 
8.    Performance Awards.
 
(a)    .    The Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Employees who shall receive a "Performance Award," which shall consist of a right that is (i) denominated in cash or Shares, (ii) valued, as determined by the Board, in accordance with the achievement of such performance goals during such performance periods as the Board shall establish, and (iii) payable at such time and in such form as the Board shall determine.
Grant
 
(b)    .    Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board shall determine the performance goals to be achieved during any performance period, the length of any performance period, the amount of any Performance Award and the amount and kind of any payment or transfer to be made pursuant to any Performance Award.
Terms and Conditions
 
(c).    Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the performance period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Board, on a deferred basis.
    Payment of Performance Awards
 
9.    Other Stock-Based Awards.
 
The Board shall have authority to grant to Participants an "Other Stock-Based Award," which shall consist of any right that is (i) not an Award described in Sections 5 through 8 above and (ii) an Award of Shares or an Award denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as deemed by the Board to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock-Based Award.
 
10.    Eligible Directors.
 
Except as otherwise determined by the Board in its sole discretion, Eligible Directors shall receive Awards in accordance with this Section. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, Awards to Eligible Directors shall be subject to the remaining provisions of the Plan.
 
(a)    .    Each Eligible Director shall receive, upon initial election to the Board as an Eligible Director, a Non-Qualified Stock Option to acquire 4,000 Shares.
Initial Grant
 
(b)    .    Effective as of the date of each annual meeting of the Company's shareholders at which directors are elected or reelected to the Board, each Eligible Director who has not received a grant pursuant to paragraph (a) above since the immediately preceding annual meeting of the Company's shareholders shall receive an Option to acquire 2,500 Shares.
Annual Grants
 
(c)    .    The exercise price per Share of each Option granted to an Eligible Director shall be the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. Options shall vest ratably and become exercisable in one-third increments on each anniversary of the Grant Date. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, Options shall expire 10 years from the Grant Date. Unvested Options shall immediately vest and become exercisable if an individual ceases to be a director on account of death, disability or retirement at normal retirement age for directors, and shall remain exercisable until the normal expiration of the Option. Upon termination as a director for any other reason other than Cause, unvested Options shall be forfeited and vested Options shall remain exercisable for three months following the termination date. Upon termination as a Director for Cause, all Options (whether or not vested) shall be forfeited as of the termination date.
Terms of Initial Grants and Annual Grants
 
(d)    .    The Board may grant Deferred Stock Units to Eligible Directors in lieu of all or any portion of the annual retainer or meeting fees otherwise payable to the Eligible Directors. Each Deferred Stock Unit shall entitle the Eligible Director to receive one Share or an amount of cash equal to the Fair
Deferred Stock Unit Grants
 
Market Value of a Share on the payment date, on terms and conditions established by the Board. The Board may also permit Eligible Directors to elect to receive Deferred Stock Units in lieu of all or any portion of the annual retainer or meeting fees otherwise payable to the Eligible Director in cash, or to defer receipt of Shares or cash to be paid pursuant to Deferred Stock Units, in accordance with a deferred compensation policy to be established by the Company.
 
(e)    .    The Board in its sole discretion may grant other types of Awards to Eligible Directors in lieu of all or any portion of any Initial Grant and/or Annual Grant of Non-Qualified Stock Option described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.
Other Awards
 
11.    Termination of Employment/Service.
 
The Board shall have the full power and authority to determine the terms and conditions that shall apply to any Award upon a termination of employment/service, including a termination by the Company without Cause, by a Participant voluntarily, or by reason of death, Disability or Retirement.
 
12.    Change in Control.
 
In the event that the Company engages in a transaction constituting a Change in Control, the Board shall have complete authority and discretion, but not the obligation, to accelerate the vesting of outstanding Awards and the termination of restrictions on Shares. As part of any agreement in connection with a Change in Control, the Board may also negotiate terms providing protection for Participants, including, the assumption of any Awards outstanding under the Plan or the substitution of similar awards for those outstanding under the Plan.
 
13.    Amendment and Termination.
 
(a)    .    The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made without stockholder approval if it would constitute a repricing of an Option or a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right or if such approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to comply.
Amendments to the Plan
 
(b)    .    The Board may waive any conditions or rights under, amend any terms of, or alter, suspend, discontinue, cancel or terminate, any Award theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively; provided that any such waiver, amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuance, cancellation, or termination that would adversely affect the rights of any Participant or any holder or beneficiary of any Award theretofore granted shall not to that extent be effective without the consent of the affected Participant, holder, or beneficiary.
Amendments to Awards
 
(c)    .    The Board is hereby authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 3(c) hereof) affecting the Company, any Affiliate, or the financial statements of the Company or any Affiliate, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Board determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) unless otherwise determined by the Board.
Adjustment of Awards Upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
 
(d)    .    Any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board may cause any Award granted hereunder to be canceled in consideration of a cash payment or alternative Award made to the holder of such canceled Award equal in value to the Fair Market Value of such canceled Award except to the extent that such payment would violate the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Cancellation
 
14.    General Provisions.
 
(a)    .    In the sole and complete discretion of the Board, an Award may provide the Participant with dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, Shares, other securities or other property on a current or deferred basis.
Dividend Equivalents
 
(b)    .    Except to the extent provided in an Award Agreement, no Award shall be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by a Participant, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
 
(c)    .    No Employee, Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Employees, Eligible Directors, consultants, Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
No Rights to Awards
 
(d)    .    All certificates for Shares or other securities of the Company or any Affiliate delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Board may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the SEC, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable Federal or state laws, and the Board may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
Share Certificates
 
(e)    .    A Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any Award, from any payment due or transfer made under any Award or under the Plan or from any compensation or other amount owing to a Participant the amount (in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property) of any applicable withholding or other taxes in respect of an Award, its exercise, or any payment or transfer under an Award or under the Plan and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes. The Board may provide for additional cash payments to holders of Awards to defray or offset any tax arising from the grant, vesting, exercise, or payments of any Award.
Withholding
 
(f)    .    Each Award hereunder shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall be delivered to the Participant and shall specify the terms and conditions of the Award and any rules applicable thereto.
Award Agreements
 
(g)    .    Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Affiliate from adopting or continuing in effect other compensation arrangements, which may, but need not, provide for the grant of options, restricted stock, Shares and other types of Awards provided for hereunder (subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Arrangements
 
(h)    .    The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any Liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
No Right to Employment
 
(i)    .    Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant or holder or beneficiary of any Award shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares to be distributed under the Plan until he or she has become the holder of such Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in connection with each grant of Restricted Stock hereunder, the applicable Award shall specify if and to what extent the Participant shall not be entitled to the rights of a stockholder in respect of such Restricted Stock.
No Rights as Stockholder
 
(j)    .    The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof.
Governing Law
 
(k)    .    If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Board, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to the applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Board, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
 
(l)    .    The Board may refuse to issue or transfer any Shares or other consideration under an Award if, acting in its sole discretion, it determines that the issuance or transfer of such Shares or such other consideration might violate any applicable law or regulation or entitle the Company to recover the same under Section 16(b), and any payment tendered to the Company by a Participant, other holder or beneficiary in connection with the exercise of such Award shall be promptly refunded to the relevant Participant, holder, or beneficiary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Award granted hereunder shall be construed as an offer to sell securities of the Company, and no such offer shall be outstanding, unless and until the Board in its sole discretion has determined that any such offer, if made, would be in compliance with all applicable requirements of the U.S. federal securities laws and any other laws to which such offer, if made, would be subject.
Other Laws
 
(m)    .    Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
No Trust or Fund Created
 
(n)    .    No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Board shall determine whether cash, other securities, or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
 
(o)    .    Headings are given to the Sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
 
(p)    .    The Board may provide in an Award Agreement that no amounts shall be paid or considered paid to the extent that any such payments would be nondeductible by the Company under Code Section 280G.
Parachute Payments
 
15.    Term of the Plan.
 
(a)    .    The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date provided it has been approved by the Company's stockholders within twelve months of such date.
Effective Date
 
(b)    .    No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted under the Plan after April 7, 2009 and no deferred stock units or awards other than incentive stock options may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award granted hereunder may, and the authority of the Board or the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award shall, continue after the authority for grant of new Awards hereunder has been exhausted.
Expiration Date
 
16.    Definitions.
 
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
"Affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by the Company, (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest and (iii) an Affiliate of the Company as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, in either case as determined by the Committee.
 
"Annual Service Period" means an annual period determined by the Board, which annual period shall be January 1 through December 31 or such other annual period as may be designated from time to time by the Board.
 
"Award" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Award or other Stock-Based Award.
 
"Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing any Award, which shall not become effective until executed or acknowledged by a Participant.
 
"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
"Cause" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, a determination by the Committee that a Participant has: (1) committed an act of embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty or breach of fiduciary duty to the Company; (2) deliberately and repeatedly violated the rules of the Company or the valid instructions of the Board or an authorized officer of the Company; (3) made any unauthorized disclosure of any of the material secrets or confidential information of the Company; or (4) engaged in any conduct that could reasonably be expected to result in material loss, damage or injury to the Company.
 
"Change in Control" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, the earliest to occur of: (1) any one "person" as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company, (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (C) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Shares), or more than one "person" acting as a "group", is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Shares that, together with the Shares held by such "person" or "group", possess more than 50% of the total Fair Market Value or total voting power of the Shares; (2) a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12 month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election; or (3) the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
 
"Committee" shall mean a committee of the Board designated by the Board to administer the Plan. To the extent deemed appropriate by the Board, the Committee shall be composed of not less than two individuals who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Section 16 and "independent directors" within the meaning of Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.
 
"Company" shall mean CONSOL Energy Inc.
 
"Deferred Stock Unit" means a right, granted to Eligible Directors in accordance with Section 10, to acquire a Share for no consideration or some other amount determined by the Board.
 
"Disability" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, a Participant's inability, because of physical or mental incapacity or injury (that has continued for a period of at least 12
 
consecutive calendar months), to perform for the Company or an Affiliate substantially the same services as he or she performed prior to incurring such incapacity or injury.
 
"Effective Date" shall mean May 3, 2005.
 
"Eligible Director" means a director who is not an employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
 
"Employee" shall mean an employee or consultant of the Company or of any Affiliate, including any individual who enters into an employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate which provides for commencement of employment within three months of the date of the agreement.
 
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
"Fair Market Value" shall mean the fair market value of the property or other item being valued, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Fair Market Value with respect to the Shares, as of any date, shall mean (i) if the Shares are listed on a securities exchange or are traded over the NASDAQ National Market System, the closing sales price of the Shares on such exchange or over such system on such date, or in the absence of reported sales on such date, the closing sales price on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, (ii) if the Shares are not so listed or traded, the mean between the bid and offered prices of the Shares as quoted by the National Association of Securities Dealers through NASDAQ for such date or (iii) in the event there is no public market for the Shares, the fair market value as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
 
"Grant Date" means, with respect to an Award, date on which the Board makes the determination to grant such Award, or such other date as is determined by the Board. Within a reasonable time thereafter, the Company will execute and deliver an Award Agreement to the Participant.
 
"Incentive Stock Option" shall mean a right to purchase Shares from the Company that is granted under Section 5 of the Plan and that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
 
"Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean a right to purchase Shares from the Company that is granted under Section 5 of the Plan and that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
 
"Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option and shall include a Restoration Option.
 
"Other Stock-Based Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
 
"Participant" shall mean any Employee or Eligible Director who receives an Award under the Plan.
 
"Performance Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 8 of the Plan.
 
"Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
 
"Plan" shall mean this CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan as amended and restated herein.
 
"Restoration Option" shall mean an Option granted pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Plan.
 
"Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
 
"Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean any unit granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
 
"Retirement" shall mean with respect to a Participant other than an Eligible Director retirement of a Participant from the employ or service of the Company or any of its Affiliates in accordance with the terms of the applicable Company retirement plan or, if a Participant is not covered by any such plan, retirement on or after such Participant's 65th birthday, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement.
 
"SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto and shall include the staff thereof.
 
"Section 16" shall mean Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder and any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
 
"Section 162(m)" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules promulgated thereunder or any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
 
"Shares" shall mean shares of the common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company, or such other securities of the Company as may be designated by the Committee from time to time.
 
"Stock Appreciation Right" shall mean any right granted under Section 6 of the Plan.
 
"Substitute Awards" shall mean Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CONSOL Energy Inc. has executed this Plan on May 3, 2005. CONSOL Energy Inc.
 
 

Exhibit 10.62
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. hereby grants an option to purchase shares of its Common Stock to the optionee named below. The terms and conditions of the option are set forth in this cover sheet and in the attachment (together, the "Agreement") and in the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan ("Plan"), the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent the terms and conditions set forth on this cover sheet or the attachment differ in any way from the terms set forth in the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
 
 
By signing this cover sheet, you agree to all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement and the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained from Human Resources.
 
 
 
1. The Option granted is intended to be a Non-Qualified Stock Option and not an Incentive Stock Option under section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code.
Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
2. Subject to Section 4 hereof, one-fourth of the Option shall become exercisable as of the first anniversary of the Date of Option Grant ("Grant Date") and an additional one-fourth of the Option shall become exercisable on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries Grant Date. At any time, the Vested Portion of the Option means that portion which (i) shall have become exercisable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and (ii) shall not have been previously exercised.
Vesting.
 
3. .
Exercise of Option
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement (including Section 4 hereof), the Optionee may exercise all or any part of the Vested Portion of the Option at any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date (the Expiration Date ); provided that the Option may be exercised with respect to whole Shares only. In no event shall the Option be exercisable on or after the Expiration Date.
 
(b) To the extent set forth in subparagraph (a) above, the Option may be exercised by delivering to the Company at its principal office, written notice of intent to exercise. Such notice shall specify the number of Shares for which the Option is being exercised and shall be accompanied by payment in full, or adequate provision therefor, of the Exercise Price, and any applicable withholding tax The payment of the Exercise Price shall be made (i) in cash or (ii) by certified check or bank draft payable to the order of the Company or (iv) by tendering Shares, actually or constructively, which have been owned by the Optionee for at least six months (and which are not subject to any pledge or other security interest) or (v) by a combination of the foregoing, that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Shares so tendered to the Company as of the date of such tender is at least equal to the Exercise Price. The Optionee may elect to pay all or any portion of the Exercise Price by having Shares with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Exercise Price withheld by the Company or sold by a broker-dealer. The payment of withholding tax shall be subject to Section 8 of this Agreement.
or to such other location designated by the Company,
and fees.
(iii) by
personal check payable to the order of the Company or
provided
The Optionee may elect to sell all Shares to cover Option costs, taxes, and fees. Remaining funds will be issued to Optionee.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, no Option may be exercised prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of such Option or the Shares under applicable state and federal securities or other laws, or under any ruling or regulation of any government body or national securities exchange, that the Board shall in its sole discretion determine to be necessary or advisable.
 
(d) Upon the Company's determination that the Option has been validly exercised as to any of the Shares, the Company shall issue or cause to be issued as promptly as practicable certificates in the Optionee's name for such Shares. However, the Company shall not be liable to the Optionee for damages relating to any delays in issuing the certificates or in the certificates themselves.
 
4.
Termination of Employment.
 
(a) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by the Company for Cause (or in the event that the Optionee breaches any of the covenants set forth in Sections 9 and 10 below), the Option (whether vested or unvested) shall be deemed canceled and forfeited in its entirety on the date of the Optionee's termination of employment or breach of covenant, as applicable. In addition, any Option exercised during the six month period prior to such termination of employment or breach of covenant, as applicable, shall be rescinded. Within 10 days after receiving notice of a rescission, the Optionee shall pay to the Company an amount in cash equal to the gain realized by the Optionee upon exercise of the Option. Such notice may be given at any time within one year from the date of such exercise.
 
(b) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by the Optionee voluntarily or by the Company without Cause, the unvested portion of the Option shall be deemed canceled and forfeited on the date of Optionee's termination of employment and the Vested Portion, if any, of the Option as of the date of such termination shall remain exercisable for a period of 90 days following such termination of employment, and shall thereafter be deemed canceled and forfeited.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4 (b) concerning an employment termination by the Company without Cause, in the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of a reduction in force, the unvested portion of the Option shall vest in its entirety in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement and shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. In the event of such an employment termination by reason of a reduction in force, the provisions of Section 9 (a)(i) and (a)(ii) shall not apply.
 
(d) (i) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of
an Early or Incapacity Retirement, as defined herein, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall vest and become exercisable in its entirety in accordance with Section 2 of this Agreement and shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. An Early or Incapacity Retirement, for purposes of this Agreement and this Section, shall only include those Early or Incapacity Retirements which take effect on or after the date
 
the Optionee has reached the age of 55 and shall not include any Separation Retirement, unless otherwise provided by the Board at the time of such termination, regardless of whether or not the Optionee reaches the age of 55, and shall not include any Normal Retirement. In the event that the Optionee's employment is terminated by reason of any Early or Incapacity Retirement that does not satisfy the definitions of an Early or Incapacity Retirement as set forth herein, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall be deemed cancelled and forfeited on the effective date of the Optionee's retirement and the Vested Portion, if any, of the Option as of the effective date of such an Early or Incapacity Retirement shall remain exercisable for a period of 90 days following the effective date of such Retirement, and thereafter be deemed cancelled and forfeited.
 
(ii) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of death, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall vest in its entirety immediately upon the date of the Optionee's death, shall become a Vested Portion of the Option and shall remain exercisable for the lesser of a period of three years following death or until the Expiration Date, and shall thereafter be deemed cancelled and forfeited.
 
(iii) In the event that Optionee's employment with the Company is terminated by reason of a Normal Retirement, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall vest in its entirety on the effective date of the Optionee's retirement and shall become a Vested Portion of the Option and shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date, and shall thereafter be deemed cancelled and forfeited.
 
5. Upon a Change in Control of the Company, the unvested portion of the Option shall vest and remain exercisable for the lesser of a one year period or until the Expiration Date. In the event that any benefits under this Agreement, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits otherwise owed to the Optionee by the Company on or after a Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed under Section 280G of the Code, or any successor provision, to be parachute payments, the benefits under this Agreement shall be reduced to the extent necessary in the Company's good faith opinion so that no portion of the benefits provided herein shall be considered excess parachute payments under Section 280G of the Code or any successor provision. The Company's good faith opinion shall be conclusive and binding upon the Optionee.
Change in Control.
 
6. Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall confer on the Optionee any right to continued employment with the Company. The Optionee shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares subject to the Option prior to the date of exercise of the Option.
No Right to Continued Employment: No Rights as a Shareholder.
 
7. The Option is nontransferable and may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Optionee, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No transfer of the Option shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a
Transferability.
 
copy of such evidence as the Board may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the acceptance by the transferee of the terms and conditions hereof.
 
8. The Optionee agrees to make appropriate arrangements with the Company for satisfaction of any applicable federal, state, local or foreign tax withholding requirements or like requirements, including the payment to the Company at the time of any exercise of the Option of all such taxes and requirements, and the Company shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from the Shares transferable to the Optionee upon any exercise of the Option or from any other compensation or other amount owing to the Optionee such amount (in cash, Shares or other property, as the case may be) as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all such taxes and requirements.
Withholding.
 
9. .
Non-Competition
 
(a) The Optionee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and its Affiliates and accordingly agrees that during the term of the Optionee's employment and for a period of two years after the termination thereof:
 
(i) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly engage in any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates, including, but not limited to, where such engagement is as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 1% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), consultant, advisor, agent or sales representative, in any geographic region in which the Company or any of its Affiliates conducted any such competing line of business;
 
(ii) The Optionee will not perform or solicit the performance of services for any customer or client of the Company or any of its Affiliates;
 
(iii) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates to (1) engage in any activity or conduct which is prohibited pursuant to this Section 9(a), or (2) terminate such employee's employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Moreover, the Optionee will not directly or indirectly employ or offer employment (in connection with any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates) to any person who was employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for a period of at least 12 months; and
 
(iv) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly assist others in engaging in any of the activities, which are prohibited under Subparagraphs (i) - (iii) above.
 
(b) It is expressly understood and agreed that although the Optionee and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 9 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against the Optionee,
 
the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
10. . The Optionee and the Company agree that certain materials, including, but not limited to, information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, the Optionee will not at any time during or after the Optionee's employment with the Company disclose or use for the Optionee's own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or any of its Affiliates or which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of the Optionee's breach of this covenant. The Optionee agrees that upon termination of employment with the Company for any reason, the Optionee will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that the Optionee may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. The Optionee further agrees that the Optionee will not retain or use for the Optionee's account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets
provided
 
11. The Optionee acknowledges that a violation or attempted violation on the Optionee's part of Sections 9 and 10 will cause irreparable damage to the Company, and the Optionee therefore agrees that the Company shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further violation of such promises by the Optionee or the Optionee's employees, partners or agents. The Optionee agrees that such right to an injunction is cumulative and in addition to whatever other remedies the Company may have under law or equity.
Remedies.
 
12. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not A Waiver.
 
13. Upon the acquisition of any Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Option, the Optionee or the Optionee's transferee, if applicable, will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, with this Agreement, or as the Company otherwise deems necessary or advisable.
Securities Laws.
 
14. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law.
 
15. This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto.
Amendments.
 
16. . Any notice, request, instruction or other document given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed and delivered, in the case of the Company, to the Secretary of the Company at the principal office of the Company and, in the case of the Optionee, to the Optionee's address as shown in the records of the Company or to such other address as may be designated in writing by either party.
Notices
 
17. . This Award is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Agreement will govern and prevail.
Award Subject to Plan; Amendments to Award
 
18. . Any failure of the Optionee to sign and return this Agreement to the Vice President Human Resources within 60 days of the Date of Option Grant will result in revocation of this Option offer and all provisions of this Agreement will expire and will be cancelled and forfeited.
Lapse of Offer
 
19. . This Agreement and the Plan are intended to be the final, complete, and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between Optionee and the Company with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement and the Plan supersede all other prior agreements, communications, and statements, whether written or oral, express or implied, pertaining to that subject matter. This Agreement and the Plan may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous statements or agreements, oral or written, and may not be explained or supplemented by evidence of consistent additional terms.
Entire Agreement
 
By signing the cover sheet of this Agreement, you agree to all of the terms and conditions described above and in the Plan.
 

Exhibit 10.63
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. hereby awards you restricted stock units under the Plan. The terms and conditions of this award are set forth in this cover sheet, the "Terms and Conditions" attachment hereto and the Plan. To the extent the terms and conditions set forth on this cover sheet or the attachment differ in any way from the terms set forth in the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
 
Name of Recipient:
 
Award Date:
 
Number of Shares Subject to Award:
 
 
You will have sixty (60) days following the date of this letter in which to sign and return to the Company the Acknowledgment section below in order to indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions of your award as set forth above and in the attached Terms and Conditions. If you do not do so, your award will become null and void.
 
 
I hereby acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the restricted stock unit award evidenced hereby, including the attached TERMS AND CONDITIONS. I further acknowledge and agree that those terms and conditions, and the provisions of the Plan, set forth the entire understanding between the Company and me regarding my entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award and supersede all prior oral and written agreements on that subject.
 
 
 
 
The restricted stock units under the Company's Equity Incentive Plan ("Plan") will entitle you to receive shares of the Company's common stock in a series of installments over your period of continued employment with the Company. Each unit represents the right to receive one share of common stock following the vesting date of that unit. Unlike a typical stock option program, the shares will be issued to you as a bonus for your continued service over the vesting period, without any cash payment required from you. However, you must pay the applicable income and employment withholding taxes (described below) when due.
 
The terms and provisions of your award are subject to the provisions of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request from Human Resources.
 
Other important features of your award may be summarized as follows:
 
All of the shares subject to your award will vest (i.e., will not be subject to forfeiture as the result of employment termination) upon the occurrence of any of the following events, and (except as otherwise specified below) such vested shares will be delivered to you as soon as practical after the occurrence of such event:
Special Vesting Rules:
 
 
 
 
In no event will any special vesting of your shares occur should your employment with the Company be terminated for Cause (as such term is defined in the Plan) or should you leave the Company's employ for any reason other than in connection with one of special vesting events specified above.
 
Should you cease employment under circumstances which do not otherwise entitle you to the special vesting of the unvested shares subject to your award, then your award will be cancelled with respect to those unvested shares, and the number of your restricted stock units will be reduced accordingly. You will thereupon cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any shares of common stock under those cancelled units.
Forfeitability:
 
Should your employment be terminated for "Cause" (as defined in the Plan) or should you breach any of the non-competition or proprietary information covenants set forth in the
 
section below, then not only will your award be cancelled with respect to any unvested shares at the time subject to your award, but you will also forfeit all of your right, title and interest in and to any shares which have vested under your award and which are either held by you at that time or are otherwise subject to deferred issuance. The certificates for any vested shares you hold at the time of such termination or breach must be promptly returned to the Company, and the Company will in addition impose an immediate stop transfer order with respect to those certificates. Accordingly, upon such termination of your employment or breach of any of your non-competition or proprietary information covenants below, you will cease to have any further right or entitlement to receive or retain the shares of common stock subject to your forfeited award. In addition, to the extent you have sold any of your vested shares within the six (6)-month period ending with the date of your termination for Cause or your breach of any covenant set forth in the section below or at any time thereafter, then you will be required to repay to the Company, within ten (10) days after receipt of written demand from the Company, the cash proceeds you received upon each such sale, provided such demand is made by the Company within one year after the date of that sale.
Covenants
Covenants
 
The shares issued to you following the vesting of your award will be registered under the federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, subsequent sales of those shares will be subject to any market black-out periods the Company may impose from time to time and must be made in compliance with the Company's insider trading policies.
Transferability:
 
Prior to your actual receipt of the shares in which you vest under your award, you may not transfer any interest in your award or the underlying shares or pledge or otherwise hedge the sale of those shares, including (without limitation) any short sale, put or call option or any other instrument tied to the value of those shares. However, your right to receive any shares which have vested under your restricted stock units but which remain unissued at the time of your death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of your will or the laws of inheritance following your death.
 
You will recognize ordinary income for federal income tax purposes on the date the shares which vest under your award are actually issued to you, and you must satisfy your income tax withholding obligation applicable to that income. The amount of your taxable income will be equal to the closing selling price per share of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the issue date times the number of shares issued to you on that date.
Federal Income Taxation:
 
You will be liable for the payment of the employee share of the FICA (Social Security and Medicare) taxes applicable to the shares subject to your award at the time those shares vest, and not at the time they are subsequently issued. No additional FICA taxes will be due when the shares are actually issued. FICA taxes will be based on the closing selling price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the date those shares vest under the award.
FICA Taxes:
 
You must pay all applicable federal and state income and employment withholding taxes when due. Those taxes will be deducted from your paycheck on
Withholding Taxes:
 
the pay day coincident with or next following the date on which such liability arises, unless you elect to satisfy your withholding tax liability through either of the following alternatives:
 
 
 
You will not have any stockholder rights, including voting rights and actual dividend rights, with respect to the shares subject to your award until you become the record holder of those shares following their actual issuance to you and your satisfaction of the applicable withholding taxes.
Stockholder Rights:
 
Should a regular cash dividend be declared on the Company's common stock at a time when unissued shares of such common stock are subject to your award, then the number of shares at that time subject to your award will automatically be increased by an amount determined in accordance with the following formula, rounded down to the nearest whole share:
Dividend Equivalent Rights:
 
 
 
The additional shares resulting from such calculation will be subject to the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, any applicable vesting requirements, forfeiture provisions and deferral election) as the unissued shares of common stock to which they relate under the award.
 
In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitilization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other similar change affecting the Company's outstanding common stock as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, the number and/or class of securities subject to your award will be appropriately adjusted to preclude any dilution or enlargement of your rights under the award.
Other Adjustments:
 
In the event of a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the the Plan), all of the then-unvested shares subject to your award will vest in full on an accelerated basis, and the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your vested units, including those which vest on such an accelerated basis, will be issued immediately prior to the closing of the change in control transaction whether or not you have elected a later deferred distribution date.
Change in Control:
 
However, if such accelerated vesting of the shares subject to your award, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits to which you may otherwise become entitled from the Company in connection with the Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed to be a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision), then, unless any agreement between you and the Company provides otherwise, the number of shares which are to vest on such an accelerated basis under your award will be reduced to the extent necessary to assure, in the Company's good faith opinion, that no portion of your accelerated award will be considered such a parachute payment. The Company's good faith opinion on this matter will be conclusive and binding upon you and your successors.
 
As a further condition to your right and entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your award, you hereby agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the following non-competition and proprietary information covenants:
Covenants:
 
.
Non-Competition Covenant
 
You hereby acknowledge and recognize the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and its Affiliates (as such term is defined in the Plan) and accordingly agree that during the term of your employment and for a period of two years immediately thereafter:
 
(a) You will not directly or indirectly engage in any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates, including (without limitation) any engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 1% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), consultant, advisor, agent or sales representative, in any geographic region in which the Company or any of its Affiliates conduct any such competing line of business.
 
(b) You will not perform (or otherwise solicit the performance of) services for any customer or client of the Company of any of its Affiliates.
1
 
(c) You will not directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates to (i) engage in any activity or conduct which
 
is prohibited pursuant to this non-competition covenant or (ii) terminate such individual's employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Moreover, you will not directly or indirectly employ or offer employment (in connection with any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates) to any person who was employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for a period of at least 12 months.
 
(d) You will not directly or indirectly assist others in engaging in any of the activities which are prohibited under subparagraphs (a) through (c) above.
 
It is expressly understood and agreed that although you and the Company consider the foregoing restrictions to be reasonable, should a final judicial determination be made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this agreement is an unenforceable restriction against you, the provision of this agreement will not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, should any court of competent jurisdiction find that any restriction contained in this agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
.
Proprietary Information Covenant
 
You and the Company agree that certain materials, including (without limitation) information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, you will not at any time during or after your employment with the Company disclose or use for your own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or any of its Affiliates or which is generally know to the industry or the public other than as a result of your breach of this covenant. You agree that upon termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, you will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that you may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. You further agree that you will not retain or use for your own account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
provided
 
The remaining terms and conditions of your award are governed by the Company's Equity Incentive Plan. An updated prospectus summarizing the principle features of that plan has been prepared and distributed by the Company; additional copies of the updated prospectus are available upon request from the Corporate Secretary at the Company's executive offices at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241. Attached hereto is a special supplement to such prospectus which provides certain other relevant information concerning your award. Please review both the updated plan prospectus and the supplement carefully so that you fully understand your rights and benefits under your award and the limitations, restrictions and vesting provisions applicable to the award.
Remaining Terms.
 
Nothing in the program will provide you with any right to continue in the Company's employ for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way your rights or the rights of the Company to terminate your service at any time for any reason, with or without cause. Your employee status with the Company will accordingly remain at will.
Employment at Will:
 
Attachments:
 
Exhibit I  Supplement to Prospectus for Equity Incentive Plan
 


