FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20051024170130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
Compensation of Non-Employee Directors
 
The form and amount of compensation paid to non-employee directors of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") is to be reviewed annually by the Company's Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee"). On October 19, 2005, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") approved a new compensation arrangement for non-employee directors, which is summarized in Exhibit 10.83 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. Mr. David C. Hardesty, Jr. received this compensation arrangement in connection with his appointment to the Board, which is more fully described in Item 5.02 herein.
 
Amendments to Equity Awards Held by Non-Employee Directors
 
On October 19, 2005, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board approved an amendment to all currently outstanding unvested stock options held by non-employee directors to provide that such awards, to the extent unvested, will automatically vest upon a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Company's Equity Incentive Plan). In addition, the Board authorized that future equity awards, whether stock options or restricted stock units, to non-employee directors will also provide that all such awards will automatically vest, to the extent unvested, upon a Change in Control of the Company.
 
This amendment to the non-employee directors' equity awards makes the automatic vesting terms of such awards consistent with the automatic vesting terms of the Company's equity awards for certain officers and other key employees. The Non-Employee Director Option Grant Notice, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 10.84 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
As of October 20, 2005, there were an aggregate of 33,390 shares of common stock underlying unvested stock options held by the Company's non-employee directors.
 
Amendment and Restatement of the Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan ("STIC")
 
On October 19, 2005, upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Board approved an amendment and restatement of the Company's STIC. A summary of the STIC, as amended and restated, is filed as Exhibit 10.85 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan Awards
 
Under the STIC, the Compensation Committee granted performance awards to its executives and other employees. Cash bonuses, if any, will be based on the achievement of specified corporate, business unit, and individual goals. In addition, the Compensation Committee established a certain minimum net income threshold for plan year 2005 (the "Net Income Threshold"). For an annual award to be paid to eligible persons, the Company's Net Income Threshold must be achieved.
 
Furthermore, the Compensation Committee determined that, in the event the Net Income Threshold was achieved, eligible employees will receive an annual award payment based on the following formula:
 
 
The "Incentive Compensation Opportunity %" is determined by using market-competitive data and is job-grade specific. The "Annual Incentive Compensation Award Factor" is based on attainment of three performance targets which are weighted equally and measured independently: CONSOL companies, business unit, and individual goals.
For 2005, Nicholas J. DeIuliis and Ronald E. Smith, who are employees of CNX Gas Corporation, a subsidiary of the Company ("CNX Gas") and no longer employees of the Company, would be paid short-term incentive bonuses by CNX Gas based upon performance criteria relating to the Company and CNX Gas and the executive's performance during his service with each entity in 2005.
 
A summary of the STIC is filed as Exhibit 10.85 to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
 On October 18, 2005, David C. Hardesty, Jr. was appointed to serve on the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Hardesty was appointed to fill the seat left vacant when Philip W. Baxter resigned from the Board in August 2005. Mr. Baxter left the board to serve as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of CNX Gas.
(d)
 
Effective as of the same date, the Board appointed Mr. Hardesty to serve on the Compensation Committee and the Finance Committee of the Board.
 
Mr. Hardesty is the President and Chief Executive Officer of West Virginia University (the "University"), and also is a professor of law at the University. The Board considers Mr. Hardesty to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. As a non-employee director of the Board, Mr. Hardesty will receive the same standard compensation amounts paid to other non-employee directors for service on the Board. As described in Item 1.01, Mr. Hardesty was granted an Initial Election to the Board Equity Award (as set forth on Exhibit 10.83 to this Form 8-K) pursuant to the form Non-Employee Director Option Grant Notice, as amended, filed as Exhibit 10.84 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Except as otherwise described below, there were no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Hardesty and any other person pursuant to his election as a director, and there are and have been no transactions since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Hardesty that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K. In 2003, the Company made a five-year pledge of $40,000 per year (a total of $200,000) to the West Virginia University Foundation Incorporated, a legally separate fundraising entity associated with the University, as part of a capital campaign to benefit the University's College of Engineering and Mining Resources. The Company also gives $4,000 annually to the Mountaineer Athletic Scholarship Fund, and in return, the Company receives four full-season tickets to University football games.
 
The Company issued a press release dated October 18, 2005 to announce the election of Mr. Hardesty. The press release is set forth in its entirety and filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.05 Amendments to Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics.
 
On October 19, 2005, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board, approved amendments to the Code of Employee Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code") effective immediately upon their adoption. Various provisions of the Code were either revised, reworded, or new provisions were added.These amendments to the Code include, among other items, provisions that: (i) specifically make the Code applicable to consultants, independent contractors and agents of the Company (in addition to employees); (ii) expressly prohibit "kickbacks" to government officials; (iii) require an employee desiring to serve as a director of a for-profit corporation to obtain the express prior consent of the Company's General Counsel; and (iv) prevent an employee and the employee's family members from trading on material non-public information about other public companies, including those that are the Company's customers or suppliers.
(a)
The Code will continue to be available on the Company's website at www.consolenergy.com under the "Corporate Governance" page. The Code, as amended, is filed as Exhibit 10.86 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On October 19, 2005, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved non-employee director stock ownership guidelines in order to further encourage each non-employee director to achieve and maintain an appropriate ownership stake in the Company. The stock ownership guidelines require that all such directors hold five times the Annual Board Retainer (set forth in Exhibit 10.83 hereto) in the Company's common stock (including any securities convertible or exercisable into Company common stock) after five years of service on the Board.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 24, 2005
 

Exhibit 10.83
 
 

Exhibit 10.84
 
 
 
[Name of Non-Employee Director]
[Address]
 
Dear :
[Name]
 
We are pleased to grant you, as an Eligible Director (as defined in CONSOL Energy Inc.'s Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan")), an initial Nonqualified Stock Option award of shares effective , 200, at the price of per share, under the Plan (the "Option Award").
[]
            
[]
            
    
[$]
            
 
The Option Award is subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained upon request. Upon a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the unvested portion of the Option Award shall vest and, unless otherwise provided by separate agreement between the Company and you, remain exercisable for the lesser of a one year period or until the expiration date of the Option Award.
 
It is CONSOL Energy Inc.'s philosophy that an enhanced sense of ownership by Directors of CONSOL Energy Inc. is an important element in our long-term success. We would like you to have an opportunity to share in the continued success of CONSOL Energy Inc. through this Option Award.
 

Exhibit 10.85
 
 
The following is a summary of the Amended and Restated Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the ""). The Plan, as amended and restated, was approved by the Company's Board of Directors (the "") on October 19, 2005.
Plan
Company
Board
 
. The Plan provides for incentive-based, competitive cash compensation opportunities to certain employee groups of the Company and its subsidiaries and business units. The Plan's purpose is to provide an effective management tool and employee reward opportunity based on achievement of Company, business unit, and individual employee objectives.
Purpose
 
. Based on recommendations made in the first quarter of each year, the Compensation Committee of the Board (the "") determines those management and employee groups from the individual business units and operations who will be eligible for an award, if any, as a result of performance in the previous Plan quarter and year.
Who Is Eligible
Compensation Committee
 
To be eligible for a quarterly award, the Plan participant must be an active, full-time, non-union represented employee on the last day of a Plan quarter, have worked for at least one month of that same quarter, be an active employee on the date the quarterly award is distributed, and belong to one of the following employee groups: (i) salaried employees below the level of Superintendent at union represented and non-union represented mine sites; (ii) non-union represented employees at mine sites; and (iii) coal operations support employees at Baltimore Terminal, Alicia Dock, River Division and Cargo Dockers. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a participant's employment ends due to an "early," "normal," or "incapacity" retirement (all as defined in the Company's retirement plan), the participant must have retired after the last day of the calendar quarter to be eligible for that quarter's award.
Quarterly Awards.
 
To be eligible for an annual award, the Plan participant must be an active, full-time, non-union represented employee on December 31 of a Plan year, have worked for at least 3 months of that same year, be an active employee on the date the annual award is distributed, and belong to one of the following employee groups: (i) Company corporate employees; (ii) Fairmont Supply Company employees; (iii) coal operations support employees; (iv) coal operations employees at the Superintendent level and above; and (v) Schedule 1 employees. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a participant's employment ends due to an "early," "normal," or "incapacity" retirement, the participant must have retired on or after December 31 of the Plan year to be eligible for that year's award.
Annual Awards.
 
. Each year, the Compensation Committee sets a minimum net income threshold for the Company. In years when the Company's minimum net income threshold is not achieved, the Plan does not pay an annual award (though quarterly awards throughout the year may be paid to those employee groups eligible for quarterly awards).
Net Income Performance Threshold
 
. The amount of an award depends on the extent to which the individual, the business unit and the Company achieve established objectives for the applicable Plan quarter or year. An individual's incentive compensation opportunity percentage primarily determines the amount of the award. Objectives, as set forth below, are established and approved for each Plan quarter and year and are assigned an overall performance rating and weighted according to various factors. The objectives include: (i) combined corporate performance (e.g. one or more recommended corporate profit objectives approved by the Compensation Committee); (ii) business unit performance; and (iii) individual performance. At the end of each Plan quarter and year, the Compensation Committee determines combined corporate and business unit performance and the Plan participant's manager determines individual performance.
Award Determination Process
 
The incentive compensation opportunity percentage is job-grade specific and expressed as a percentage of base salary. The Compensation Committee establishes, approves and recommends changes to these percentages by examining job responsibilities for each grade level and benchmarking the opportunity to market-competitive data. Adjustments may be made to awards in order to achieve internal pay equity.
At the end of each Plan quarter and year, performance in relation to each objective is evaluated. The Compensation Committee determines a single Company and business unit performance rating. The manager and individual will discuss the individual's performance rating to assign to such individual's performance. The ratings and individual incentive compensation opportunity percentage are then used in specific plan formulas (set forth below) to determine the amount of a quarterly or annual award under the Plan.
 
. Once a Plan quarter or year ends, as the case may be, and the Compensation Committee has approved an award under the Plan, it will be paid as soon as administratively feasible. The payments will be determined in accordance with the applicable formula set forth below:
Payment Schedule and Formula
 
.
Quarterly Award Formula
 
 
.
Annual Award Formula
 
 
. Awards are paid in cash.
Settlement of Awards
 
. An award will be treated as ordinary income in the year in which it was paid. The amount needed to satisfy federal, state and/or local withholding tax requirements (including FICA) will be withheld from a participant's award before making a payment to the participant.
Taxation of Award
 
. The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee. The President and CEO of the Company, with the assistance of the Vice President of Human Resources and staff, perform administrative functions, including recommendations to the Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee considers and approves any awards.
Plan Administration
 
The powers of the Compensation Committee include authority to interpret the Plan, and, subject to Plan provisions, determine eligible participants, terms of any awards, minimum thresholds, target amounts and profit objectives, and the extent to which the Company and Plan participants have met or exceeded thresholds, target amounts and profit objectives. The Compensation Committee has the power, in its sole and complete discretion, to determine the amount of or eliminate any award under the Plan.
 
The Compensation Committee may delegate to appropriate officers of the Company and/or its related companies who are participating employees in the Plan certain tasks related to its powers and duties under the Plan.
 
. The Plan can be amended or terminated at any time by the Compensation Committee, subject to approval by the Company's Board, provided that no amendment or termination effects the rights of eligible participants to receive awards earned but unpaid as of the date of an amendment or termination.
Amendment or Termination
 
. Prior to receipt, no award is assignable, in whole or in part, either voluntarily or by operation of law.
No Assignments
 
. Any account or reserves that the Company establishes to record amounts credited for the Plan are solely for accounting purposes.
Reserves
 
. No person has a right or claim to be granted an award from the Plan, and no employee who is an eligible Plan participant will have the right to continued employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or business units.
No Rights to Awards or Continued Employment
 

Exhibit 10.86
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION
 
It always has been and continues to be the intent of CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL") and its subsidiary companies (together with CONSOL, the "Company") that all who conduct business on behalf of the Company maintain the highest ethical and legal standards in conducting such business. The essence of this Code of Business Conduct (the "Code"), which has been adopted by CONSOL and each of its subsidiaries, is that each employee will conduct all Company business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes considerations of personal advantage.
 
This Code applies to all executives and other officers, employees, consultants, independent contractors and agents (collectively, "employees") of the Company (including, specifically, CONSOL's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer). Only the Board of Directors or an authorized Committee of the Board may grant waivers of this Code for executive officers.
 
If employees have any questions regarding acceptable conduct or the interpretation of this Code, or if they are in doubt about the best course of action in a particular situation, it is their responsibility to seek clarification from their line management or, if necessary, from CONSOL's Legal or HR Department or Internal Auditing management.
 
 
A. GIFTS, FAVORS, AND ENTERTAINMENT
 
(i) GENERALLY
 
Gifts, favors, and entertainment may be provided to others at Company expense or for the benefit of the Company or its employees in their capacity as employees only if they meet all of the following criteria:
 
 
 
 
 
(ii) RECORDS AND DOCUMENTATION
 
Accounting records and supporting documentation reflecting gifts, favors, and entertainment to others must be accurately stated, including appropriate, clear and descriptive text. Departments are encouraged to establish policies and procedures for approval of gifts, favors, or entertainment of unusual monetary value (U.S. tax law limits the deduction for business gifts per recipient per year).
in advance
 
B. PAYMENTS TO GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES
 
Payments to Government personnel to facilitate the rendition of services are prohibited. However, the Company does not prohibit customary expediting payments, properly recorded in the Company's books, which are not excessive in amount, if and only if:
 
 
 
 
 
The form or manner of payment is irrelevant in determining whether a payment is permissible.
 
In case of doubt as to the legality of any payment, gift, favor, or entertainment proposed to be given by or on behalf of the Company, a CONSOL Legal Department representative should be consulted of commitment.
in advance
 
C. PAYMENTS RELATED TO SALES
 
In connection with sales by the Company, commissions, rebates, discounts, credits, and allowances should be paid or granted only by the Company on whose books the related sale is recorded, and such payments should:
 
 
 
 
 
Agreements for the Company to pay commissions, rebates, credits, discounts, or allowances should be in writing; however, when this is not feasible, the payment arrangement should be supported by an explanatory memorandum for the file prepared by the approving department and reviewed by the CONSOL Legal Department.
 
The intent of the above policy applicable to the payment or granting of commissions, rebates, discounts, credits and allowances in connection with sales by the Company is to avoid illegal or unethical payments, or establishing an environment where these may inadvertently be made. The business world is complex, however, and there may be unusual situations in apparent conflict with one or more of the policy guidelines. Such situations may nevertheless be acceptable business practice and warrant an exception. Any such exceptions, including those arising outside the United States and its territories, should be reviewed with the CONSOL Treasury and Legal Departments. In all cases, however, CONSOL Internal Auditing must be informed . There must be no falsification, misrepresentation, or deliberate overbilling reflected in any document (including invoices, consular documents, letter of credits, etc.) involved in the transaction. This includes suppression or omission of documents or of information in the documents, or deliberate misdirection of documents.
in advance
 
D. PAYMENTS RELATED TO PURCHASES
 
In connection with Company purchases of goods and services, including commissions related thereto, payments shall:
 
 
 
 
 
All such payments shall be consistent with corporate and trade practice.
 
Payments for goods and services purchased by the Company are otherwise subject to the same considerations noted above in the procedures with respect to payment of commissions, etc., in connection with sales by the Company. Payments for goods and services made in the country in which the product was delivered or service rendered by the vendor are not, per se, considered subject to special review or a requirement for a written request for payment from an officer of the payee unless circumstances suggest the manner of payment might be illegal or unethical.
 
E. GIFTS AND PAYMENTS TO EMPLOYEES
 
Employees shall neither seek nor accept for themselves or others any gifts, favors, or entertainment without a legitimate business purpose, nor seek or accept loans (other than conventional loans at market rates from lending institutions) from any person or business organization that does or seeks to do business with, or is a competitor of, the Company. In the application of this policy:
 
 
 
 
In certain situations, refusal of personal gifts, favors, or entertainment (because, for example, they have a value substantially in excess of customary business practices) can result in awkward business situations. The propriety of employees accepting such favors or entertainment or keeping such valuable gifts for personal use versus turning them over to the Company, donating them to a charity or other disposition should be discussed in each case with the employee's management and documented.
 
2. CONFLICTS OF INTEREST
 
Employees should avoid any situation that involves or may involve a conflict between their personal interests and the Company's interests. As in all other facets of their duties, employees dealing with customers, suppliers, contractors, competitors or any persons doing or seeking to do business with the Company are to act in the best interests of the Company to the exclusion of considerations of personal preference or advantage. Each employee shall make prompt and full disclosure in writing to his department management of a prospective situation that may involve a conflict of interest. This includes:
 
 
 
 
 
All information disclosed to management as required by this policy shall be treated confidentially, except to the extent necessary to protect the Company's interests.
 
The key to review of potential conflicts is whether the employee's duties for the Company, or those of his subordinates, require making decisions that could be influenced by the interest reported. Other considerations include, but are not limited to whether or not:
 
 
 
 
In questions of conflict of interest, the term "family" should be interpreted broadly.
 
 
 
 
Conflicts of interest involving real estate, coal, oil and gas leases, and mineral interests are particularly sensitive. All employees are prohibited from competing with the Company in its real estate acquisition or exploration activities, or using Company information or equipment to enable them to profit, either directly or indirectly, through the acquisition of mineral leases, royalty or mineral interests, or real property for the purpose of obtaining royalty or mineral interests.
 
3. SERVICE IN OUTSIDE ORGANIZATIONS
 
Employees should not accept a directorship with any for-profit corporation without the prior specific approval of the General Counsel of the Company. Employees should ensure their participation or service to other organizations, be they civic, charitable, corporate, governmental, public, private, or non-profit in nature, do not (a) materially detract from or interfere with the full and timely performance of their services to the Company, or (b) create possible conflicts of interest as to the Company.
 
4. BUSINESS INFORMATION PROTECTION
 
All Company employees shall ensure the proper handling, protection and disposal of business information. Every employee is responsible for compliance. In addition, supervisory employees are responsible for compliance by their subordinate employees and non-employees under their supervision. Business information is a valuable resource to the Company. Improperly handled or disclosed business information (whether intentional or inadvertent), may result in financial damage to the Company; a diminution of our competitiveness; exposure of the company, its officers, and its directors to legal liability; or otherwise adversely affect shareholders or other stakeholders of the Company. The primary purpose of this policy is to ensure that employees and others understand the need to protect business information; provide guidance in the proper handling of business information; prevent the unauthorized disclosure; or the loss of business information; and notify employees and others of the possible consequences of failure to comply with this policy.
 
To this end, employees shall not:
 
 
 
Employees shall, upon termination of their employment, return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, including electronic files, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company, except that employees may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries.
 
Improper use of sensitive inside information can be significantly inhibited by careful control and restriction of access to such information. Employees who handle particularly sensitive inside information, and who may not have the background to understand the legal and corporate implications of the misuse of such information, should be periodically advised of corporate policy and the severe legal penalties that can be associated with misuse of inside information. It is important to remember that these obligations continue even though a person is no longer employed by the Company.
 
5. FAIR DEALING
 
Every employee shall deal honestly and fairly with the Company's directors, officers, employees, customers, suppliers, and competitors, and shall not take unfair advantage of others through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or other unfair dealing practices.
 
6. INSIDER TRADING
 
If any employee has material nonpublic information relating to the Company, neither that person nor any related person may buy or sell securities of the Company or engage in any other action to take advantage (directly or indirectly, or for another person's benefit) of that information. Further, if an employee acquires material, non-public information regarding other companies, including the Company's customers or suppliers during the course of their employment, neither they nor any related person may buy or sell securities of the other company or engage in any other action to take advantage (directly or indirectly, or for another person's benefit) that information. Transactions that may be necessary or justifiable for independent reasons (such as the need to raise money for an emergency expenditure) are no exception. Even the appearance of an improper transaction must be avoided to preserve the Company's reputation for adhering to the highest standards of conduct. Employees should refer to the Statement of Policy on Securities Trades by Company employees for further information.
 
7. ELECTRONIC INFORMATION
 
The use of the Company's computer information systems and the Company data transmitted and/or stored electronically are assets requiring unique protection. Standards for Electronic Information Security have been adopted and are available through line management or CONSOL's Information Systems & Technology Department. Each employee is responsible for compliance with the standards and related procedures. Additionally, employees are required by law to read and comply with the license agreements associated with the computer software they acquire.
 
8. COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW
 
All employees are expected to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, but not limited to, the following:
 
A. ANTITRUST LAWS
 
The Company's activities are subject to federal and state antitrust laws. In general, those laws prohibit agreements or actions that may restrain trade or reduce competition. Violations include agreements among competitors to fix or control prices; to boycott specified suppliers or customers; to allocate products, territories or markets; or to limit the production or sale of products. Care must be exercised to ensure that any activities with representatives of other companies are not viewed as a violation of any antitrust law. Actions taken by the Company without cooperation of competitors may also be illegal if they are intended to or tend to create monopoly power. Because of the complexity of antitrust laws, the advice of CONSOL's Legal Department should be sought on all questions regarding this subject.
 
B. ANTIBOYCOTT LAWS
 
Antiboycott laws prohibit participation in, or cooperation with, international boycotts which U.S. law does not sanction. For example, it is a violation of U.S. law to refrain from doing business with boycotted countries or blacklisted persons, or to furnish information about business relationships of a U.S. person with such countries or persons. The mere receipt of a request to engage in any such boycotting activity becomes a reportable event by law. Such requests should be brought to the attention of CONSOL's Legal Department.
 
C. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SAFETY AND HEALTH LAWS
 
It is the Company's policy to conduct all operations in such a manner as to protect and preserve the environment and the health and safety of employees. To that end, the Company's policy is that all operations shall be conducted in full compliance with all applicable state and federal environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect work practices at all Company sites and the impact of our operations on the air, land and water. Employees must be scrupulous in the observance of applicable laws and regulations to avoid risks to the health and safety of employees and to the environment. The advice of line and staff environmental specialists and CONSOL's Legal Department in these areas should be utilized as needed.
 
D. EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY AND HARASSMENT
 
(i) EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY
 
It is the Company's policy to provide equal opportunity for all qualified persons without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin, or veteran status. This applies to, but is not limited to hiring, placement, upgrading, demotion, transfers, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rate of pay or other forms of compensation, selection for training, and all other aspects of employment.
 
(ii) HARASSMENT
 
Sexual harassment or abuse of others (employees and non-employees) in the workplace by employees is prohibited and will not be tolerated. Additionally management will not condone affronts to the dignity of any employee, male or female, whether under the guise of initiating new employees to the workforce or otherwise. It is everyone's responsibility to maintain a proper workplace for all employees. If employees have any questions or concerns in the area of equal employment opportunity, they should bring them to the immediate attention of their supervisor or CONSOL's Legal Department.
 
9. POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS
 
Employees shall not make a contribution of any Company funds, property or services to any political party or committee, domestic or foreign, or to any candidate for or holder of any office of any government  national, state, local, or foreign. This policy does not preclude (1) the operation of a political action committee under applicable laws (2) Company contributions, where lawful, to support or oppose public referenda or similar ballot issues, or (3) political contributions, where lawful and reviewed in advance by CONSOL's Vice President, External Affairs, Investor and Public Relations and approved in writing by the President and CEO of CONSOL who will advise the appropriate Boards of Directors. No direct or indirect pressure in any form is to be directed toward employees to make any political contribution or participate in the support of a political party or the political candidacy of any individual.
 
This policy is not intended to affect the rights of officers, employees, and agents of the Company to make personal political contributions to the party, committee, or candidate of their choice as long as the donation is derived exclusively from that individual's personal funds or time and in no way was compensated directly or indirectly by the Company.
 
10. TRAVEL AND ENTERTAINMENT
 
Travel and entertainment should be consistent with the needs of the Company's business. Employees are expected to exercise good judgment, travel on Company business in a cost-efficient manner, adhere to normal safety requirements, and promptly report any expenditures incurred. The Company's intent is that an employee neither loses nor gains financially as a result of business travel and entertainment. Detailed instructions related to business travel are documented in the Travel and Entertainment Expense Policy and Procedures Manual.
 
Employees who approve travel and entertainment expense reports are responsible for the propriety and reasonableness of expenditures, for ensuring that expense reports of their subordinates are submitted promptly, and that receipts and explanations properly support reported expenses.
 
11. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND DOCUMENTATION
 
It is the Company's policy to comply with all financial reporting and accounting regulations applicable to the Corporation. All accounts and records shall be documented in a manner that:
 
 
 
No record, entry, or document shall be false, distorted, misleading, misdirected, deliberately incomplete, or suppressed.
 
The Company has established internal control standards and procedures to ensure that assets are protected and properly used and that financial reports are accurate and reliable. Employees share the responsibility for maintaining and complying with required internal controls.
 
Improper accounting and documentation are not only contrary to the Company policy but also may be in violation of the accounting provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the Public Company Accounting and Investor Protections Act of 2002 or other laws or regulations, potentially involving personal liability, both civil and criminal, as well as sanctions against the Company.
 
If any employee has concerns or complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters of the Corporation, then he or she shall submit those concerns or complaints to the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors promptly.
 
12. PROTECTION AND PROPER USE OF COMPANY ASSETS
 
Employees must protect the Company's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, loss, misuse, carelessness, and waste of assets have a direct impact on the Company's profitability. All Company assets should be used only for legitimate business purposes.
 
13. CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES
 
All employees owe a duty to the Company to advance the Company's legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises. An employee shall not: (a) receive or seek to receive a benefit from opportunities that are discovered or developed through his or her involvement with the Company (including without limitation, his or her use of the Company's property or information, or his or her position); (b) using corporate property, information or position for personal gain; or (c) compete with the Company, directly or indirectly, for business opportunities
 
14. ANNUAL REPORTING
 
The Company conducts an annual review of employee compliance with the Code by surveying management personnel and other employees who have significant influence or approval authorization over the areas included in the Code, or who have access to significant confidential or proprietary information.
 
Annually CONSOL's Internal Auditing conducts an independent review of the Company's survey process. The results of this review will be presented annually by Internal Auditing to CONSOL's Audit Committee.
 
15. COMPLIANCE
 
Employees are expected to comply with this Code and underlying policies and procedures. Strict adherence to these standards will protect the Company and its employees from criticism, litigation or embarrassment that might result from alleged or real conflicts of interest or unethical practices. Violations of this Code are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including discharge and possible legal prosecution.
 
Employees should report apparent violations of this Code through their line organization, CONSOL's Legal Department or, if they prefer, to the CONSOL Ethics and Compliance Hotline by calling 1-800-544-8024. This is a toll-free service that is available 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year and, though not intended as a substitute for speaking directly to management, is an option that allows you to report illegal or unethical behavior or activity anonymously. The Company will not allow retaliation for reports made in good faith.
 
16. OTHER POLICIES
 
Nothing in this Code is intended to alter other legal rights and obligations of the Company or its employees (such as "at will" employment arrangements.)
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONSOL Energy Elects Hardesty to Board
 
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 18 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: CNX) announces the election of David C. Hardesty, Jr. to serve on the company's board of directors. Hardesty has been president of West Virginia University (WVU) since 1995 where he reports directly to the chair of the WVU Board of Governors.
 
In addition, Hardesty serves as the permanent chair of WVU's affiliated research corporation, teaching hospital and the hospital's parent health care system of hospitals. The combined budget for these entities is approximately $1.6 billion.
 
Hardesty is also a tenured law professor at the WVU College of Law. He's held this post since 1998. He is a member of the American Bar Association, the West Virginia State Bar and State Bar Association, and the National Association of College and University Attorneys.
 
"We are delighted to have David Hardesty join our board," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "His breadth of knowledge and experience on many of the issues affecting us should allow him to make an immediate impact."
 
Prior to his career in academia, Hardesty was an associate and partner in the law firm of Bowles Rice McDavid Graff & Love in Charleston, W. Va., where he specialized in state and local taxation, corporate and banking law, and administrative law. He was appointed by the Governor of West Virginia as the State Tax Commissioner and served for three years from 1977 to 1980.
 
In 2002, he was appointed to serve on the West Virginia Energy Task Force. Hardesty has also served on the West Virginia Science and Technology Council and was a chair of the West Virginia Tax Study Commission from 1981 to 1983.
 
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from West Virginia University. Hardesty was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University where he earned his Master of Arts degree in philosophy, politics and economics. Hardesty graduated from Harvard Law School with a J.D. (doctor of laws) degree.
 
Hardesty was a member of the West Virginia National Guard, U.S. Army Reserves, from 1969 to 1975. He and his wife Susan Brown Hardesty reside in Morgantown, W. Va. They have two grown children, a daughter and a son.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award.
 
Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com.
 
SOURCE CONSOL Energy Inc.
CONTACT: Thomas F. Hoffman of CONSOL Energy Inc., +1-412-831-4060
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding CONSOL Energy's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.
 


