FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20050801173108.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 26, 2005, the Board of Directors of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") amended the Company's 1999 Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") to allow the directors' earnings under the Plan to be adjusted as measured against the performance of certain authorized investments that the directors may annually designate. Previously, the directors' accounts were credited based upon an established interest rate calculation. In addition to the foregoing revisions, the Company is authorized to further amend the Plan to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
 
The Plan, which was effective on October 25, 1999, was adopted for the purpose of providing supplemental retirement benefits to members of the Company's Board of Directors and as an inducement for continued service. The Plan permits members of the Board of Directors to defer all or a portion of any Board of Director's fees, such as the annual retainer, meeting fees or other amounts earned for services performed as a member of the Board. The Plan is an unfunded and unsecured liability of the Company, and benefits will be paid from the Company's general assets. Accordingly, participants are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to the benefits.
 
A copy of the Plan is included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. A copy of Amendment No. 1 to the Plan is included as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release announcing its 2005 second quarter results on July 28, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
(a)
 
On July 26, 2005, the Board of Directors adopted the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"), effective immediately upon their adoption, to supersede and replace the existing bylaws of the Company. The modifications to the former bylaws were as a result of a review of such bylaws by the Board of Directors in an attempt to update the former bylaws and to clarify certain former bylaw provisions. Various provisions of the former bylaws were either revised, reworded, reordered, or new provisions were added.These amendments to the former bylaws include, among other items, provisions that: (i) give the Board of Directors exclusive authority to fill vacancies and elect additional directors; (ii) create the offices of Chairman of the Board and Chief Operating Officer, clarify the responsibilities of certain officers of the Company, and clarify the mechanism for removal of officers of the Company, which in some circumstances requires an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board; (iii) allow only the Board to call special meetings of the stockholders; (iv) limit mandatory indemnification to directors and officers only, and provide permitted, instead of mandatory, indemnification to employees and agents acting at the request of the Company; (v) explain the duties of the Finance Committee; (vi) outline procedures for stockholders to take action by written consent; and (vii) provide that the Amended and Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, so long as proper notice is given. The numbering of the Amended and Restated Bylaws does not conform to the numbering of the previous bylaws of the Company.
 
The foregoing is merely a summary of the material terms of Amended and Restated Bylaws and does not purport to be complete, and is qualified in its entirety by the Amended and Restated Bylaws. A copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference. Also, a copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws marked to show changes to the former bylaws has been included as Exhibit 3.2.1 to this Form 8-K.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: August 1, 2005
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.2
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.1. Delaware Office. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
 
Section 1.2. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
 
Section 1.3. Books and Records. The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
Section 2.1. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 2.2. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
 
Section 2.3. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
 
Section 2.4. Notice of Meeting. Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
 
Section 2.5. Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement. Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
Section 2.6. Voting by Proxy. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
 
Section 2.7. Organization. The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman or in the Chairman's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman.
 
Section 2.8. Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations.
 
(A) Annual Meetings of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's
 
notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
 
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iii) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph
 
(A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased
 
Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
 
(B) Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(C) General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
 
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be
 
deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
 
Section 2.9. Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote. Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
 
Section 2.10. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls. The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
 
Section 2.11. Record Date for Action by Written Consent. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to
 
corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
 
Section 2.12. Inspectors of Written Consent. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
 
Section 2.13. Effectiveness of Written Consent. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
 
 
 
Section 3.1. General Powers. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
 
Section 3.2. Number, Tenure and Term. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
 
Section 3.3. Regular Meetings. A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
 
Section 3.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
 
Section 3.5. Notice. Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
 
Section 3.6. Action by Consent of Board of Directors. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
 
Section 3.7. Conference Telephone Meetings. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
 
Section 3.8. Quorum. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
 
Section 3.9. Vacancies. Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting
 
from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
Section 3.10. Committees of the Board; Executive Committee. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required. Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
 
(A) Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall:
 
(1) assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements; (ii) the Corporation's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; (iii) the Corporation's compliance with debt covenants; (iv) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit function; and (v) the Corporation's risk management policies and related practices; (2) interact directly with and evaluate the performance of the Corporation's independent auditors, including to determine whether to engage or dismiss the independent auditors and to monitor the independent auditors' qualifications and independence; (3) prepare the report required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Audit Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it
 
from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Audit Committee shall be independent, determined under applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE").
 
(B) Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall:
 
(1) establish and periodically review the Corporation's compensation philosophy and the adequacy of compensation plans and programs for directors, executive officers, and other Corporation employees and make recommendations to the Board concerning compensation of directors;
 
(2) establish compensation arrangements and incentive goals for executive officers and to administer compensation plans;
 
(3) review the performance of the executive officers and award incentive compensation and adjust compensation arrangements as appropriate based upon performance;
 
(4) review and monitor management development and succession plans and activities;
 
(5) prepare the report on executive compensation for inclusion in the Corporation's annual proxy statement in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and regulations; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Compensation Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Compensation Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE.
 
(C) Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall:
 
(1) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the Corporation's short term and long term financial plans, budgets, capital structure and proposed dividend actions (including long term strategic plans, annual financing plans, annual dividend policy, actions on stock splits and repurchases, capital expenditure requirements and the issuance of debt and equity securities), potential mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other equity investments;
 
(2) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board regarding the objectives, the financial, investment and actuarial policies, and the administration and performance of the funded plans sponsored by the Corporation;
 
(3) review and make recommendations to the Board regarding the Corporation's credit agreements, short term investment policies, financial risk management programs and major insurance programs; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Finance
 
Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
 
(D) Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall:
 
(1) recommend to the Board the structure and operations of the Board;
 
(2) identify individuals qualified to serve as members of the Board, and identify and recommend that the Board select the director nominees for the next annual meeting of stockholders and to fill vacancies;
 
(3) recommend to the Board the responsibilities of each Board committee, the structure and operation of each Board committee, and the director nominees for assignment to each Board committee;
 
(4) oversee the Board's annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees;
 
(5) oversee the annual evaluations of the President;
 
(6) develop and recommend to the Board for adoption a set of corporate governance guidelines applicable to the Corporation and to periodically review the same; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE.
 
Section 3.11. Compensation. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
 
Section 3.12. Records. The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
 
 
 
Section 4.1. Elected Officers. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and
 
duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
 
Section 4.2. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
 
Section 4.3. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
 
Section 4.4. President. The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
 
Section 4.5. Chief Operating Officer. Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.6. Executive Vice President. Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.7. Senior Vice President. Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.8. Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall:
 
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
 
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
 
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
 
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
 
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
 
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.9. Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.10. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.11. Secretary. The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the committees of the Board and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to
 
the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
 
Section 4.12. Removal. Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
 
Section 4.13. Vacancies. A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
 
 
 
Section 5.1. Stock Certificates and Transfers. The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
Section 5.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and
 
secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require.
 
Section 5.3. Record Date of Stockholders. The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
 
 
 
Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
 
Section 6.2. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
Section 6.3. Seal. The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY, INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
 
Section 6.4. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
 
Section 6.5. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
 
Section 6.6. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective
 
as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
 
Section 6.7. Indemnification and Insurance.
 
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
 
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as
 
follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
 
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this
 
Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
 
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
 
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
 
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
 
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
 
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
 
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
 
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
 
 
Section 7.1. Contracts. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
 
Section 7.2. Proxies. Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
 
 
 
Section 8.1. Amendments. These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
 

Exhibit 3.2.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1.1. Delaware Office. The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
 
within or without the State of Delaware, as
SECTION 1. Annual. Meetings of the stockholders for the purpose of electing Directors, and transacting such other proper business as may be brought before the meeting, shall be held annually at such date, time, and place,
Section 1.2. Other Offices. The Corporation may have such other offices, either
may
the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
 
be designated by the Board of Directors
Section 1.3. Books and Records. The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time
("Board").
.
 
SECTION 2. Special. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Board and shall be called by the Secretary at the request in writing of the holders of record of at least a majority of the outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote. Special meetings shall be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board shall designate.
 
 
 
Section 2.1. Annual Meeting. The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
 
Section 2.2. Special Meeting. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
 
Section 2.3. Place of Meeting. The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
 
Notice. Written , stating the place, and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes , shall be not less than nor more than days before the date of to each stockholder entitled to vote
SECTION
3
.
Section 2.4.
of Meeting
Notice of each meeting of stockholders
or printed notice
date
,
day
,
thereof
for which the meeting is called
mailed
delivered by the Corporation
ten
10 days
sixty
60
such meeting
the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication),
of record
thereat
.
at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
 
Quorum otherwise provided by , the holders of shares of in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at
SECTION 4
.
Section 2.5.
. Unless
; Adjournment and Postponement. Except as
statute
law or by the Certificate of Incorporation
a majority of the outstanding
stock entitled to cast a majority of votes at a meeting, present either
the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented
such meeting.
a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the
 
meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
Section 2.6. Voting by Proxy. At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
 
Organization. The Chairman of the Board, or, in the Chairman's absence, the President shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman
SECTION 5.
Section 2.7.
at the direction of the Chairman or
,
Company
Corporation
.
 
of
Section 2.8. Notice
the Board.
 
SECTION 6. Voting. Each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting shall be entitled to one vote for each share held of record, in person, by written proxy or by any permissible means of electronic transmission, provided that such electronic transmission must either contain, or be submitted with, information from which it can be determined that it was authorized by the stockholder. All elections and questions shall be decided by the vote of holders of at least a majority of the outstanding stock of the Company present in person or by proxy, a quorum being present, except as otherwise required by law.
 
SECTION 7. Inspector(s). At each meeting of the stockholders, the Inspector(s) shall, among other things, ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each; determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots; count all votes and ballots; and certify their determination of the number of shares represented and their count of all votes and ballots. If three of more Inspectors are appointed, a majority of those appointed shall have the power to make a decision. Each such Inspector shall be appointed by the Board before the meeting, or in default thereof, by the presiding officer at the meeting, and shall be sworn to the faithful performance of their duties. If any Inspector previously appointed shall fail to attend or refuse or be unable to serve, a substitute shall be appointed by the presiding officer.
 
Stockholder
SECTION 8.
Actions.
Business and Nominations.
 
() Annual of Stockholders. (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders () pursuant to the 's notice of meeting ) by or at the direction of the Board who was a stockholder of record at the time notice provided for in this , who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who with the notice procedures set forth in this
a
A
Meeting
Meetings
of Directors of the Corporation
only
A
a
Company
Corporation
(or any supplement thereto), (B
, (b
or (C) by any stockholder of the Company
of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation
of the Company
the
of giving of
Section 8 is delivered to the secretary of the Company
Bylaw
complies
complied
Section 8.
Bylaw.
 
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause () of paragraph ()(1) of this the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the of the and such business a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the at the principal executive offices of the not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting , that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth () as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; () as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the , the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder ) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the 's books, and of such beneficial owner (ii) the class and number of shares of the which are owned beneficially and of record
of Directors
C
c
a
A
Section 8,
Bylaw,
secretary
Secretary
Company
Corporation
any
proposed
other
other than
the nominations of persons for election to the Board must constitute
must be
secretary
Secretary
Company
Corporation
ninetieth
(
)
one
hundred twentieth
(
)
(PROVIDED, HOWEVER
; provided, however
thirty (
)
seventy (70)
60
to be timely
one hundred twentieth (
)
ninetieth (
)
tenth (
)
by the Company)
or postponement
(or extend any time period)
:
A
a
or reelection
(i)
and in accordance with
Securities
and (ii)
of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including
)
B
b
Company
Corporation
and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (C
; and (c
Company
Corporation
,
and
capital stock
of
Company
Corporation
 
by such stockholder and a representation that intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and () a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the 's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
such beneficial owner, (iii)
the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Company entitled to vote at such meeting and
such owner
iv
iii
Company
Corporation
The foregoing notice requirements shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Company of his or her intention to present a proposal at an annual meeting in compliance with Rule 14a-8 (or any successor thereof) promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Company to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Company may require any proposed nominee as a Director to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Company.
 
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph ()(2) of this to the contrary, in the event that the number of to be elected to the Board is increased and there is no public announcement naming the nominees for days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for , if it shall be delivered to the at the principal executive offices of the not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the .
a
A
Section 8
Bylaw
Directors
directors
at an annual meeting
of Directors of the Corporation
by the Company
all of
the additional
directorships at least one hundred (100)
director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100
Section 8
Bylaw
the additional directorships
any new positions created by such increase
secretary
Secretary
Company
Corporation
tenth (
)
Company
Corporation
 
() Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the 's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which are to be elected pursuant to the 's notice of meeting () by or at the direction of the Board or ( by any stockholder of the who is a stockholder of record at the time notice provided for in this entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this In the event the calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more to the Board, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the 's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph ()(2) of this shall be delivered to the at the principal executive offices of the not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special
b
B
Company
Corporation
of Directors
Directors
directors
Company
Corporation
1
a
of Directors
2) provided that the Board has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting,
b)
Company
Corporation
the
of giving of
Section 8 is delivered to the secretary of the Company, who is
Bylaw, who shall be
upon such election and
Section 8.
Bylaw.
Company
Corporation
Directors
directors
of Directors
entitled to vote in such election of directors
,
Company
Corporation
a
A
Section 8
Bylaw
secretary
Secretary
Company
Corporation
one hundred twentieth (
)
ninetieth (
)
 
meeting or the 10th following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
tenth day (
)
day
of Directors
(or extend any time period)
 
() General. (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Except as otherwise provided by law, the of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this if any proposed nomination or business not in compliance with this to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded
c
C
Section 8
Bylaw
meeting of stockholders
of the Company
, as applicable,
Section
8.
Bylaw.
chairperson
Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer
(A)
,
Section 8 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (a)(2)(C)(iv) of this Section 8) and (B)
Bylaw and,
was
is
made or proposed
Section 3.8,
Bylaw,
defective proposal or
or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 8, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Company to present a nomination or business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Company
.
.
 
(2) For purposes of this "public announcement" shall disclosure in a press release reported by or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
Section 8,
Bylaw,
include
mean
The Wall Street Journal
the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press
Company
Corporation
 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Nothing in this shall be deemed to affect any rights of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the 's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or () the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors
Section 8,
Bylaw,
Section 8.
Bylaw.
Section 8
Bylaw
(A)
(i)
Company
Corporation
(or any successor thereof)
B
ii
of
pursuant to any applicable provisions of
under specified circumstances.
 
the Certificate of Incorporation.
Section 2.9. Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote. Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law,
, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders
"
 
Section 2.10. Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls. The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
 
Section 2.11. Record Date for Action by Written Consent. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
 
Section 2.12. Inspectors of Written Consent. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation
 
that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
 
Section 2.13. Effectiveness of Written Consent. Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
 
 
 
. The business and affairs of the shall be under the direction of the Board
SECTION 1.
Number
Section 3.1. General Powers
Company
Corporation
managed
.
The number of Directors, which shall not be less than six, shall be determined from time to time by the vote of at least a majority of the whole Board. The Board shall elect one of the Directors as Chairman of the Board, to serve at the pleasure of the Board. The Chairman of the Board or, in his absence, the President, shall preside at all meetings of the Board.
of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
 
shall hold office until the next annual election of and until the 's successor is elected and qualified.
SECTION 2.
Term
.
Each Director
Section 3.2. Number, Tenure and Term. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director
Directors
directors
Director
director
 
SECTION 3.
Increase of Number. I
n case of any increase in the number of Directors between Annual Meetings of Stockholders, each additional Director shall be elected by the vote of at least a majority of the whole Board.
 
SECTION 4.
Resignation
. A Director may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. The acceptance thereof shall not be necessary to make it effective; and such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein or, in the absence of such specification, upon the receipt thereof.
 
SECTION 5. Vacancies. In case of any vacancy in the Board for any cause, the remaining Directors, by vote of majority of the whole Board, may elect a successor to hold office for the unexpired term of the Director whose place is vacant.
 
Regular Meetings. of the Board shall be held
SECTION 6.
Section 3.3.
Regular meetings
A regular meeting
new
of Directors
at such times as the Board may designate. A notice of each regular meeting shall not be required.
without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
 
SECTION 7. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board shall be held whenever called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or three Directors. The Secretary shall give notice of such special meetings by telegraph, cable or telefax at least two days before the meeting directed to each Director; such notice may be waived in writing by any Director before or after such meeting. Unless otherwise stated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a special meeting. At any meeting at which every Director shall be present, any business may be transacted, irrespective of notice.
 
SECTION 8. Quorum. At least five members of the Board shall constitute a quorum. If there be less than a quorum present at any meeting, a majority of those present may adjourn the meeting from time to time. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, of by these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the Directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be necessary for the passage of any resolution.
 
SECTION 9. Place of Meeting. The Directors shall hold the meetings and may have an office or offices in such place or places within or outside the State of Delaware as the Board from time to time may determine.
 
Section 3.4. Special Meetings. Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
 
Section 3.5. Notice. Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the
 
purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
 
Section 3.6. Action by Consent of Board of Directors. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
 
by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation shall constitute presence in person at
SECTION 10. Action by Consent; Participation by Telephone or Similar Equipment. Unless the Board shall otherwise provide, any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board or any committee of the Board may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or such committee consent in writing to the adoption of a resolution authorizing the action. The resolution and the written consents thereto shall be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee. Unless the Board shall otherwise provide, any one or more members of the Board or any such committee may participate in any meeting
Section 3.7. Conference Telephone Meetings. Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee
such
by such means
in a meeting
a meeting.
such meeting.
 
SECTION 11. Compensation. The Board shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
 
 
Section 3.8. Quorum. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
 
Section 3.9. Vacancies. Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting
 
of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
 
an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, and one or more additional committees committee consist of or more . The Board
SECTION 1. Committees. The Board, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the whole Board, shall elect from the Directors,
Section 3.10. Committees of the Board; Executive Committee. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate
and
a Finance Committee,
the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw,
may, by like vote, designate
,
each
. Each
to
shall
three
two
Directors
directors of the Corporation
shall designate a chairman for each committee, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. The number of members of each committee shall be determined from time to time by the Board.
 
SECTION 2. Procedure. Each Committee shall fix its own rules of procedure and shall meet where and as provided by such rules. A majority of a committee shall constitute a quorum, and the act of a majority of the members of the committee present at a meeting at which a quorum shall be present shall be the act of the committee.
SECTION 3. Reports to the Board. Each Committee shall keep regular minutes of its proceedings and shall periodically report to the Board summaries of the Committee's significant completed actions and such other matters as the Committee determines to be necessary or appropriate, as may be requested by the Board.
may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required. Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
 
Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall:
SECTION 4.
(A)
 
) assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements; (ii) the Corporation's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; (iii) the Corporation's compliance with debt covenants; (iv) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit function; and (v) the Corporation's risk management policies and related practices;) interact directly with and evaluate the performance of the Corporation's independent auditors, including to determine whether to engage or dismiss the independent auditors and to monitor the independent auditors' qualifications and independence; ) prepare the report required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Audit Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Audit Committee shall be independent, .
a
(1
b
(2
andc
(3
as determined by the Board
determined under applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE")
 
Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall:
SECTION 5.
(B)
 
) establish and periodically review the Corporation's compensation philosophy and the adequacy of compensation plans and programs for directors, executive officers, and other Corporation employees
a
(1
;
and make recommendations to the Board concerning compensation of directors;
 
) establish compensation arrangements and incentive goals for executive officers and to administer compensation plans;
b
(2
 
) review the performance of the executive officers and award incentive compensation and adjust compensation arrangements as appropriate based upon performance;
c
(3
 
) review and monitor management development and succession
d
(4
 
plans and activities;
and
 
) prepare the report on executive compensation for inclusion in the Corporation's annual proxy statement in accordance with Securities and Exchange rules and regulations; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Compensation Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
e
(5
Commissions
Commission's
Each member of the Compensation Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE.
 
SECTION 6.
(C) Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall:
 
(1) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the Corporation's short term and long term financial plans, budgets, capital structure and proposed dividend actions (including long term strategic plans, annual financing plans,
 
annual dividend policy, actions on stock splits and repurchases, capital expenditure requirements and the issuance of debt and equity securities), potential mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other equity investments;
 
(2) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board regarding the objectives, the financial, investment and actuarial policies, and the administration and performance of the funded plans sponsored by the Corporation;
 
(3) review and make recommendations to the Board regarding the Corporation's credit agreements, short term investment policies, financial risk management programs and major insurance programs; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Finance Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall
(D)
:
 
) recommend to the Board the structure and operations of the Board;
a
(1
 
) identify individuals qualified to serve as members of the Board,
b
(2
 
and to identify and recommend that the Board select the director nominees for the next annual meeting of stockholders and to fill vacancies;
 
) recommend to the Board the responsibilities of each Board committee, the structure and operation of each Board committee, and the director nominees for assignment to each Board committee;
c
(3
 
) oversee the Board's annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees;
d
(4
 
) oversee the annual of the
e
(5
evaluation
evaluations
CEO; and
President;
 
) develop and recommend to the Board for adoption a set of corporate governance guidelines applicable to the Corporation and to periodically review the same; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
f
(6
Each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE.
 
Section 3.11. Compensation. The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
 
Section 3.12. Records. The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
 
 
 
Officers. The officers of the Corporation shall be a , one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents one or more Vice Presidents,
SECTION 1.
Section 4.1. Elected
elected
President-Chief Executive Officer
Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer
, and
a Chief Financial Officer, a Treasurer and a Secretary. The Board or the President may appoint such other officers as they deem necessary who shall have such authority and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed, respectively, by the Board or the President.
Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
 
Section 4.2. Election and Term of Office. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
 
Section 4.3. Chairman of the Board. The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
 
President. The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board, shall have general charge of the
SECTION 2.
Section 4.4.
of Directors
 
business and affairs of the Corporation and perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board the absence or inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, duties of the Chairman of the Board
shall
. In
of Directors. The President shall, in
of
because of the
and the Board shall select a temporary chairperson from among the directors to perform the
perform all
.
and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
 
Chief Operating Officer. Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board or the President.
SECTION 3.
Section 4.5.
of Directors
 
Executive Vice President. Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board or the President.
SECTION 4.
Section 4.6.
of Directors
 
Senior Vice President. Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board or the President.
SECTION 5.
Section 4.7.
of Directors
 
Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Financial Officer shall:
SECTION 6.
Section 4.8.
 
) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
a
(A
 
) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
b
(B
 
) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
c
(C
 
) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
d
(D
 
) oversee the investment of corporate funds; primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board or the President; and
e
(E
have
of Directors
 
) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him by the Board or President.
f
(F
or her
of Directors
the
 
Vice Presidents. Each Vice President shall have such title, powers, and duties as be assigned to by the Board or the President.
SECTION 7. Vice President. The Board may appoint one or more
Section 4.9.
shall perform such
may
shall
such Vice President
him or her
of Directors
 
by the Board or the President.
SECTION 8. Treasurer. The Board shall appoint a Treasurer, who shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Treasurer
Section 4.10. Treasurer. The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time
of Directors
 
Secretary. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board and the stockholders; shall all notices duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as may be assigned to by the Board or the President.
SECTION 9.
Section 4.11.
or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose,
of the Board, the committees
the minutes of all the meetings of
the Secretary
he or she
give
see that
of meetings as required by law or these Bylaws; the Secretary shall affix the seal of the Corporation to any instruments when so required; and the Secretary shall in general perform all the corporate
are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the
, subject to the control of the Board or the President,
from time to time
the Secretary
him or her
of Directors
 
Removal. elected or appointed by the Board may be removed at any time by the vote of
SECTION 11.
Section 4.12.
All officers
Any officer
,
agent
,
of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President
or suspended
from office
affirmative
the majority of the whole Board or by the President. All officers, agents and employees, other than officers elected or appointed by the Board, may be suspended or removed by the officer appointing them.
a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
 
SECTION 12. Resignation. Any officer may resign at any time by giving written notice to the President or the Secretary. Unless otherwise stated in such notice of resignation, the acceptance thereof shall not be necessary to make it effective; therein or, in the absence of such specification, it shall take effect upon the receipt thereof.
 
Vacancies. A vacancy in any office
SECTION 13.
Section 4.13.
newly created elected office and a
elected
shall be filled in the same manner as provided for election or appointment to such office.
because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
 
 
 
SECTION 1. Indemnification of Directors, Officers, Employees and Agents. Each person who is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Company (including the heirs, executors, administrators or estate of such person) shall be indemnified by the Company as of right to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware against any liability, cost or expense asserted against such person and incurred by such person by reason of the fact that such person is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent. The right to indemnification conferred by this Section shall include the right to be paid by the Company the expenses incurred in defending any action, suit or proceeding in advance of its final disposition, subject to the receipt by the Company of such undertakings as may be required by the General Corporation Law of Delaware. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, maintain insurance at its expense, to protect itself and any such person against any such liability, cost or expense.
 
 
The foregoing provisions of this Section 1 shall be deemed to be a contract between the Company and each director and officer who serves in such capacity at any time while this Section is in effect. Neither any repeal or modification of this Section or, to the fullest extent permitted by the laws of Delaware, any repeal or modification of laws, shall affect any rights or obligations then existing with respect to any state of facts then or theretofore existing or any action, suit or proceeding theretofore or thereafter brought based in whole or in part upon any such state of facts.
 
SECTION 2. Certificate for Shares. The shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be represented by certificates. To the extent required by law, every holder of stock shall be entitled to a certificate representing the number of shares in the Company owned by such stockholder in such form, not inconsistent with the Certificate of Incorporation, as shall be prescribed by the Board. Certificates representing shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, President or an Executive Vice President and the Treasurer, Secretary or any Assistant Secretary. Any or all signatures on the certificate, including those of the Transfer Agent and Registrar, may be facsimile. The name of the person owning the shares and the date of issue, shall be entered on the Company's books.
 
All certificates surrendered to the Company shall be canceled, and no new certificates shall be issued until the former certificate for the same number of shares of the same class shall have been surrendered and canceled, except that the Board may determine, from time to time, the conditions and provisions on which new certificates may be used in substitution of any certificates that may have been lost, stolen or destroyed.
 
shall be transferred by the holder thereof, in person, or by attorney upon surrender cancellation of certificates for
SECTION 3. Transfer of Shares. Shares in the capital stock of the Company
Section 5.1. Stock Certificates and Transfers. The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation
on the books of the Corporation
record
any such person's
his or her
,
and
for
a like number of shares.
at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
SECTION 4.
Regulations
. The Board may make rules and regulations concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificates for shares of the capital stock of the Company. The Board may appoint one or more transfer agents and one or more registrars of transfers, and may require all stock certificates to bear the signature of a transfer agent and a registrar of transfer.
 
Section 5.2. Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates. No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require.
 
Record Date of Stockholders. The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
SECTION 5.
Section 5.3.
sixty
60
Company
Corporation
 
 
 
Section 6.1. Fiscal Year. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
 
Section 6.2. Dividends. The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
 
Seal. The of the shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
SECTION 6. Corporate
Section 6.3.
seal
Seal
Company
Corporation
,
seal
Seal
 
 
Section 6.4. Waiver of Notice. Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
 
Section 6.5. Audits. The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
 
Section 6.6. Resignations. Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
 
Section 6.7. Indemnification and Insurance.
 
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the
 
basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
 
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the
 
claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
 
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
 
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
 
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
 
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as
 
provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
 
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
 
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
 
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
 
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
 
 
Section 7.1. Contracts. Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may
 
execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
 
Section 7.2. Proxies. Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
 
 
 
These Bylaws may be amended or repealed
Section 8.1. Amendments.
altered,
,
, in whole or in part, only by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the outstanding stock of the Company entitled to vote or by duly adopted resolution of the Board; provided, that the stockholders may from time to time specify provisions of the Bylaws that may not be amended or repealed by the Board.
at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
 
 
Rights issued pursuant to the Rights Agreement, dated as of October 23, 2003, between the Company and EquiServe Trust Company, N.A. (the "Rights Agreement") may be transferred by an Acquiring Person or an Associate or Affiliate of an Acquiring Person (as such terms are defined in the Rights Agreement) only in accordance with the terms of, and subject to the restrictions contained in, the Rights Agreement.
 
 

Exhibit 10.67
 
 
Effective October 25, 1999
 
 
This CONSOL Energy Inc. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan") is adopted by CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation, (the "Company") for the purpose of providing supplemental retirement benefits to members of the Company's board of directors as an inducement for continued service. The Plan is not subject to any of the provisions of ERISA unless employee directors are eligible to participate. Benefits due under the Plan constitute a mere promise by the Company to pay benefits as the Plan provides. Accordingly, Participants are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to their benefit, and the Plan is unfunded for tax purposes.
 
 
An Eligible Director may submit a Deferral Election to the Administrator within 30 days of the Eligible Director's Initial Entry Date and before any succeeding January 1 for any subsequent Plan Year.
 
 
2.1
Deferral Elections
 
(a) . By making a Deferral Election, a Participant agrees irrevocably to reduce his or her Fee earned after the effective date of the Deferral Election. A Deferral Election is effective on a calendar year basis, and must be filed before the beginning of the calendar year to which it relates. Except as provided in subsection (b), a Deferral Election may not be amended or revoked for the remainder of the Plan Year for which it is effective. A Deferral Election shall cause the Company to withhold payment of the Eligible Director's Fee, and to credit an amount equal to the amount withheld to that Eligible Director's Account.
Annual Elections
 
(b) . An Eligible Director may terminate a Deferral Election during a Plan Year only upon the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency. To terminate a Deferral Election, an Eligible Director must file an amended Deferral Election with the Administrator containing such information as the Administrator may specify. The Administrator shall have the sole duty and discretion to determine whether an Unforeseeable Emergency exists with respect to the Eligible Director. An amended Deferral Election shall be effective no earlier than the first day of the month next following the date the amended Deferral Election is filed.
Cessation of Deferrals During the Plan Year
 
An Eligible Director's Deferral shall be reduced by any amount necessary to satisfy all applicable employment and income tax withholding obligations, and any garnishments or other amounts required to be withheld by applicable law or court order.
2.2
Reduction of Deferrals.
 
A Participant shall be 100% vested at all times in his or her Account.
2.3
Vesting.
 
 
An account shall be established and maintained for each Participant, which shall be credited with such Participant's Deferrals and Earnings. The Participant's Account shall be charged with distributions, income taxes and any other amounts required to be withheld under Section 4.10.
3.1
Account.
 
The Earnings to be credited to a Participant's Account quarterly shall be equal to the rate of interest published as the average of the Moody's Investor Services ten-year municipal bond rate for the thirteen weeks preceding the last day of the quarter for which interest is calculated.
3.2
Earnings.
 
 
Except as otherwise provided in this article, withdrawals are not available from a Participant's Account.
4.1
No Withdrawals.
 
A Participant's Account shall be paid (or commence to be paid) as soon as is administratively practicable after the occurrence of a Termination.
4.2
Timing of Distribution.
 
A Participant's Account shall be paid in the form specified in his or her most recent Distribution Election filed with the Administrator at least one (1) year before the Termination, except in the circumstance where the Administrator, at the request of a Participant, accepts and approves such a filing made within one (1) year before the Termination. Such form must be either (i) a single sum payment or (ii) substantially equal annual installments over a period not to exceed 15 years. If no form of distribution is determinable, the Participant's Account will be distributed as soon after Termination as is administratively practicable in a single sum payment. Once a Participant's Account has commenced payment in the form of installments, the Participant may elect to accelerate payment of the entire Account only as provided in Section 4.7.
4.3
Form of Distribution.
 
A Participant may amend or revoke a Distribution Election by filing a written amendment or revocation at least one (1) year before a Termination, except that the Administrator may, upon request by a Participant, accept and approve such written amendment or revocation filed within one (1) year of the Termination. Unless requested by the Participant and accepted and approved by the Administrator, any purported amendment or revocation filed within 1 year of the Termination shall be ineffective. A Participant may amend or revoke his or her Distribution Election no more than once annually.
4.4
Amendment of Election.
 
Should a Participant die before his or her Account has been fully distributed, the Account shall be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary in accordance with the Participant's Distribution Election.
4.5
Death Benefits.
 
Upon the written request of a Participant and a determination by the Administrator that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred with respect to the Participant, the Participant may withdraw from his or her Account any amount that does
4.6
Unforeseeable Emergency.
 
not exceed the amount necessary to satisfy the Unforeseeable Emergency, or the amount of the Account if less.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan, upon the written request of a Participant and approval by the Administrator, a Participant may withdraw 90% of the amount of his or her Account in the form of a single sum. Upon such withdrawal, (i) the remaining 10% of the Account shall be forfeited and (ii) the Participant shall not again be treated as an Eligible Director for the current or any subsequent Plan Year.
4.7
Early Withdrawal.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, if a Participant is a "covered employee" as defined in Code  162(m)(3) at the time of any distribution, the maximum amount which may be distributed from such a Participant's Account in any Plan Year shall not exceed $1,000,000, less the amount of compensation paid to the Participant by the Company in such Plan Year which is not "performance-based" (as defined in Code  162(m)(4)(C)). Such amount shall be reasonably determined by the Administrator at the time of the proposed distribution. Any amount not distributed to a Participant in a Plan Year as a result of the limitation set forth in this section shall be distributed in the next Plan Year, which may again be subject to the limitation of this section.
4.8
Limitation on Distributions to Covered Employees.
 
If any person entitled to any payment under this Plan is, in the judgment of the Administrator, incapable of giving receipt for such payment because of minority, illness, infirmity or other incapacity, the Administrator may pay the amount due such person to a duly appointed legal representative, if there is one, or, if none, to the spouse, children, dependents, or such other persons with whom the person entitled to payment resides. Any such payment shall be a complete discharge of the liability of the Company, its Affiliates, and the Plan with respect to such payment.
4.9
Payments to Minors and Incompetents.
 
The Company shall deduct from any payment made under this Plan an amount equal to all or part of the federal, state and local taxes required by law to be withheld by the Company (including but not limited to any amount that may be necessary to satisfy applicable income tax withholding and employment tax obligations), all garnishments, and any other amounts required to be withheld by applicable law or court order.
4.10
Tax Withholding.
 
 
Each Participant may designate in the form and the manner specified by the Administrator a Beneficiary to receive or continue receiving the payment or payments (if any) due under Article V and which remain unpaid at the Participant's death. The Beneficiary of a married Participant shall be his or her spouse, unless the Participant designates a Beneficiary other than the spouse and the spouse consents in writing to the designation in the form and the manner prescribed by the Administrator. A Participant may revoke such designation at any time and substitute therefor another Beneficiary. A married Participant may revoke a prior Beneficiary designation only with the consent of his or her spouse in the form and the manner prescribed by the Administrator.
5.1
Designation of Beneficiary.
 
If upon the death of an unmarried Participant a Beneficiary has not been validly designated, the Beneficiary shall be the Participant's estate.
5.2
Failure To Designate a Beneficiary.
 
 
The Company may, in its discretion, make contributions to a trust, to be invested and utilized to pay benefits under the Plan. If a trust is created by the Company, the provisions of this Article shall apply.
6.1
Establishment of Trust.
 
An amount equal to each Participant's Deferrals and Earnings, determined under Article III, may, in the discretion of the Company, be transferred to the Trustee within thirty (30) days after the end of the calendar quarter, to be held pursuant to the terms of the Trust Agreement. The assets of any such trust shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors and shall be maintained pursuant to a separate trust document conforming to the terms of the model trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64.
6.2
Deferrals Remitted to Trust.
 
Any payment required to be made under this Plan to a Participant or Beneficiary shall be paid by the Trustee to the extent of the assets held in the Trust by the Trustee, and by the Company to the extent the assets in the Trust are insufficient to pay such amount.
6.3
Benefits Paid From Trust.
 
The Company may direct the Trustee to invest each Account in any investment that it deems appropriate, including common stock of the Company. Each Account shall otherwise be subject to the investment provisions of the Trust Agreement.
6.4
Investment Discretion.
 
 
The Administrator shall have sole discretionary responsibility for the operation, interpretation, and administration of the Plan. Any action taken on any matter within the discretion of the Administrator shall be final, conclusive, and binding on all parties. In order to discharge its duties hereunder, the Administrator shall have the power and authority to adopt, interpret, alter, amend or revoke rules necessary to administer the Plan, to delegate its duties and to employ such outside professionals as may be required for prudent administration of the Plan. The Administrator shall also have the right within the scope of his authority (if a designee of the Company) to enter into agreements on behalf of the Company necessary to administer the Plan. Any Participant who is acting as Administrator shall not be entitled to make decisions with respect to his own participant and entitlement to payment
7.1
Plan Administration.
under the Plan.
 
7.2
Claims Procedures
 
(a) . This section sets forth the exclusive procedures governing benefits under the Plan. No legal action may be brought by any person claiming entitlement to benefits until after the procedures set forth herein have been exhausted.
Applicability
 
(b) . Within a reasonable time following a Termination, or the approval of a request for withdrawal under Sections 4.6 or 4.7, the Administrator shall send to the affected Participant (or Beneficiary, as the case may be) a written notice setting forth the Participant's Account balance and the time and manner in which payment is to commence (as provided in the Participant's Distribution Election). The Trustee shall commence payment of the Participant's Account automatically in accordance with the Distribution Election, subject to Article IV.
General Rules
 
(c) . Any person claiming entitlement to benefits for which the Administrator refuses to authorize payment shall file a written claim for benefits with the Administrator at the offices of the Company. The claim must set forth the basis for the claim and be signed by the claimant.
Claim for Benefits
 
(d) . Within 60 days of receiving a claim for benefits, the Administrator shall make a determination on the claim, and notify the claimant in writing of the determination. If the claim is approved, the Administrator shall direct the Trustee to commence payment in accordance with the provisions of Article IV. If the claim is denied, in whole or in part, the Administrator's notice to the claimant shall explain the specific reasons for the denial, refer to the specific Plan provisions on which the denial is based, describe any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim (if possible), and explain the steps and time limit for requesting appeal of the determination.
Determination
 
(e) . A claimant (or authorized representative) shall have 60 days in which to file an appeal of the determination, measured from the date the Administrator's notice described in paragraph (d) is mailed. An appeal must (i) be in writing, (ii) set forth each ground and supporting fact on which the appeal is based and (iii) provide any other comments the claimant believes pertinent and helpful to his appeal. When making an appeal, a claimant may review the documents that were pertinent to the Administrator's denial of his claim. Any claimant who fails to file an appeal timely shall be estopped and barred from any further challenge to the Administrator's determination to deny the claim.
Appeal of Determination
 
(f) . Upon receipt of a written appeal, the Company shall appoint a committee, composed of at least 2 individuals who did not participate in the original denial of the claim, to conduct a full and fair review of the appeal. The committee shall complete its review and decide the appeal within 60 days after the written appeal was received by the Company. In conducting its review, the committee may, in its sole discretion, require the Company or the claimant to submit such additional documents or other evidence as the committee deems necessary or appropriate. The review committee's decision shall be final and binding on all persons with respect to the claimant's appeal. If the appeal is denied in whole or in part, the committee shall notify the claimant in writing, setting forth the specific reasons for the denial and the specific plan provisions on which the denial is based. The committee shall have the sole discretion to interpret any provision of the Plan that is pertinent to the outcome of the appeal.
Review by Committee
 
If any person institutes legal action to enforce any of the provisions of the Plan, the prevailing party in such legal action shall be reimbursed by the
7.3
Reimbursement of Costs.
 
other party for the prevailing party's costs, including, without limitation, reasonable fees of attorneys, accountants and similar advisors, and expert witnesses.
 
 
The right of a Participant or Beneficiary to benefits under the Plan shall not be assigned, alienated, transferred, pledged or encumbered. Neither the Company, its Affiliates, nor the Plan shall be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of a Participant.
8.1
Nontransferability.
 
The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, and the Participant and his or her heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives.
8.2
Binding Effect.
 
No Plan provision shall confer upon any Participant the right to continue as a member of the Board or as an employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
8.3
No Rights Implied.
 
The Plan shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Pennsylvania.
8.4
Applicable State Law.
 
The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, ("ERISA") shall apply to this Plan only if one or more Participants (i) has in effect a Deferral Election while he or she is an employee of the Company or (ii) has an Account some or all of which reflects Deferrals described in clause (i).
8.5
Application of ERISA.
 
The Plan constitutes the entire understanding and agreement with respect to the subject matter contained herein, and there are no agreements, understandings, restrictions, representations or warranties among any Participant or Beneficiary and the Company other than those set forth or provided for herein.
8.6
Entire Agreement.
 
The Company may amend or terminate the Plan at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment or termination shall be effective if it has the effect of eliminating or reducing a Participant's Account below the balance calculated under the Plan immediately before giving effect to such amendment.
8.7
Amendment or Termination of Plan.
 
 
The following terms shall have the meanings set forth in this article, unless a different meaning is plainly required by the context;
 
means the book entry account established and maintained for each Participant under Section 3.1.
"Account"
 
means a committee of two or more persons selected to serve by the Board. If no such committee exists, then the Administrator means the Board.
"Administrator"
 
means any parent corporation (within the meaning of Code  424(e)) or subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of Code  424(f)).
"Affiliate"
 
means an individual, trust or other entity entitled to receive payment on account of a Participant's death.
"Beneficiary"
 
means the board of directors of CONSOL Energy Inc.
"Board"
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
"Code"
 
means CONSOL Energy Inc.
"Company"
 
means the amount or percentage to be withheld from an Eligible Director's Fee, pursuant to a Deferral Election.
"Deferral"
 
means an Eligible Director's election to defer all or a portion of his or her Fee under the Plan on the form and in the manner prescribed by the Administrator and as may be required under the Plan. No Deferral Election shall be effective with respect to any Fee payable while the Participant is not an Eligible Director.
"Deferral Election"
 
means a Participant's election to receive payment of his or her Account. Such election shall specify the form of distribution allowable under Section 4.3.
"Distribution Election"
 
means the amount credited to a Participant's Account each quarter under Section 3.2.
"Earnings"
 
means October 25, 1999.
"Effective Date"
 
means a member of the Board, and who is selected by the Administrator, in its sole discretion, as eligible to participant in the Plan and notified of such in writing.
"Eligible Director"
 
means any fee, such as the annual retainer, meeting fees or other amounts earned by the Eligible Director during the Plan Year for services performed as a member of the Board, and that is paid in cash or property to the Eligible Director, or would be paid but for a Deferral Election.
"Fee"
 
means the Effective Date or, if later, the first day of the month following the date an individual is first designated as an Eligible Director.
"Initial Entry Date"
 
means an individual for whom either (i) a Deferral Election is in effect or (ii) an Account exists (including a Beneficiary when appropriate in the context).
"Participant"
 
means the CONSOL Energy Inc. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan as set forth herein, as it may be amended from time to time.
"Plan"
 
means each calendar year.
"Plan Year"
 
means the Participant is no longer a member of the Board and is not an employee of the Company or any Affiliate.
"Termination"
 
means the legal entity created by the Trust Agreement.
"Trust"
 
means the trust instrument entered into between the Company and a trustee, as it may be amended from time to time.
"Trust Agreement"
 
means an unanticipated emergency, such as a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant or a dependent of the Participant or loss of the Participant's property due to casualty, that is caused by an event beyond the control of the Participant, and that results in severe financial hardship that a withdrawal or cessation of a Deferral Election would mitigate.
"Unforeseeable Emergency"
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, CONSOL Energy, Inc., has caused this Plan to be executed by a duly authorized officer effective as of October 25, 1999.
 
 

Exhibit 10.68
 
 
Section 3.2 of the 1999 CONSOL Energy Inc. Directors Deferred Compensation Plan is amended and stated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
" The Participant's Account shall be adjusted by an amount equal to the amount that would have been earned (or lost) if the amounts deferred under the Plan had been invested in hypothetical investments designated by the Participant, based on a list of hypothetical investments provided by the Administrator from time to time (such hypothetical earnings or losses shall be referred to as "Earnings"). The Participant shall designate the investments used to measure Earnings from the list of authorized investments provided by the Administrator by completing the appropriate form or in such other manner as the Administrator may designate. The Participant may change such designations at such times as are permitted by the Administrator, provided that the Participant shall be entitled to change such designations at least annually. Earnings shall be credited to the Participant's Account quarterly and shall be credited to a Participant's Account until all payments with respect to such Account have been made under the Plan. Neither the Company nor the Administrator shall act as a guarantor, or be liable or otherwise responsible for the investment performance of the designated investments (including any losses sustained by a Participant) with respect to a Participant's Account."
3.2 Earnings.

Exhibit 99.1
 
CONSOL Energy Announces Second Quarter Results
 
Earnings Up 57% for Quarter, 97% for First Half on Higher Coal Prices
 
PITTSBURGH, July 28 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: CNX), a producer of high-Btu bituminous coal and of coalbed methane gas, reported earnings of $41.1 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, for its second quarter ended June 30, 2005, compared with $26.2 million, or $0.29 per diluted share, for the same period a year earlier. Net cash from operating activities was $61.8 million for the June 2005 quarter, compared with $92.1 million in the same quarter a year earlier.
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS - Period-To-Period Comparison
 
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates. Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to mineral leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates; Proceeds from Sales of Assets and changes in restricted cash.
 
"Our top and bottom line improvements this quarter were driven primarily by higher coal prices consistent with the strong energy fundamentals that have persisted for more than a year and the higher production capacity in coal resulting from our recent expansion projects," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "We improved second quarter earnings by nearly 57 percent compared with a year earlier despite the loss of coal and gas production because of the Buchanan Mine fire as well as the costs associated with the fire."
 
Harvey said results for the quarter just ended included a charge of $23.3 million in estimated expenses (net of expected insurance recovery) for property damage. "However, we also expect to receive a business interruption insurance recovery at some point, effectively recapturing lost earnings." Coal and gas production at Buchanan Mine resumed in mid-June, 2005.
He also noted that both the company's top line and earnings for the first half of the year are running well ahead of last year. "Through the first half of the year, total revenues are up 23.3 percent while earnings before the effect of an accounting change are up nearly 97 percent compared with the first half of last year," he said. "Higher coal prices and consistent production levels despite the fire at Buchanan are the primary reasons for our strong first half."
 
"Energy fundamentals remained strong throughout the first half of the year," Harvey noted. "Our average realized coal price was higher than the first quarter of this year, reflecting a positive situation in overall demand for coal as well as a continuation of tight coal supplies." He said the company's average realized price for gas was lower than the first quarter of this year, reflecting several first quarter sales contracts at more than $10.00 per thousand cubic feet (mcf) that were not part of second quarter sales. "Forward gas markets continue to be very strong," he added, noting that the company had hedges in place from 2006 through 2008 at average prices ranging from $6.88 to $7.67 per mcf.
 
Period-to-Period Analysis of the Quarter
 
Total revenue and other income increased 21.1 percent, primarily reflecting high prices for coal sales and increased sales of purchased gas.
 
Total costs increased 18.2 percent.
 
Cost of Goods Sold increased 21.3 percent primarily due to: higher costs for produced coal, reflecting increased supply, labor and contract mining costs; higher retiree medical costs; higher costs for purchased gas (offset by a commensurate increase in purchased gas revenue); and costs related to the Buchanan Mine fire.
 
Selling, General and Administrative costs increased 8.9 percent, primarily reflecting costs associated with various corporate initiatives.
 
Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization increased 8.2 percent reflecting several coal mining assets placed in service after the June 2004 quarter.
 
Interest expense declined 13.6 percent, reflecting lower long-term debt and a reduction in the weighted average outstanding balance of short-term borrowings.
 
Taxes other than income increased 16.0 percent reflecting an increase in taxes that are tied to coal prices and an increase in wage taxes, reflecting an increase in labor costs.
 
Income taxes increased, reflecting higher pretax earnings.
 
Total debt declined 1.2 percent since the beginning of the year. As of June 30, 2005, CONSOL Energy had $418.5 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $4.7 million of cash and $413.8 million available to be borrowed under it $750 million bank facility.
Coal Operations
 
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration.
 
 
Coal segment performance in the quarter-to-quarter comparison reflected significantly higher realizations for company-produced coal, offset in part by an increase in unit costs of production.
 
"Our mines generally ran well during the quarter," Harvey said. "Other than the obvious problem at Buchanan, the only notable situations were at Enlow Fork, which was in an area with poor roof conditions, and some of our Central Appalachia properties, where thinner seams are a fact of life."
 
Production of coal by the company was unchanged in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, with higher production from McElroy, Bailey, Miller Creek and Emery mines offsetting lower production at Buchanan, Enlow Fork mines and the Mill Creek contract mining operations in Kentucky. The expansion of the McElroy Mine, the opening of the Miller Creek Mine and the reactivation of the Emery mine all occurred in the second half of 2004. In addition, the following mines began a vacation period on June 25, 2005 that ended on July 8, 2005: Shoemaker; Blacksville #2; Loveridge; Robinson Run; Amonate; and VP 8.
 
Sales of company-produced coal improved 0.3 million tons to 17.0 million from 16.7 million tons. "We have worked closely with our various transportation providers all year," Harvey said. "Thus far, we have been very close to our shipping targets."
 
Average realized prices for company-produced coal increased period-to- period by $5.72 per ton, or 19.2 percent, reflecting improved contract pricing and higher spot prices for coal compared with the same period a year earlier. The company produced approximately 0.7 million tons of metallurgical grade coal during the period.
 
Total costs for company-produced coal increased $2.76 per ton, or 9.9 percent period-to-period. The increase primarily was due to higher costs for supplies related to adverse mining conditions, labor, contract mining, retiree medical care and production taxes. Operating margins (average realized price less operating costs) were $12.87 per ton, an improvement of 41.6 percent period-to-period, while financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $4.87 per ton, an improvement of 155.0 percent.
Gas Operations
 
 
Volumes, including CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates expressed as net revenue interest, in billions of cubic feet (Bcf). Royalty payments, which are included in Cost of Goods Sold for gas in our income statement, were: $0.55/Mcf in the 2005 quarter, compared with $0.57/Mcf in the 2004 quarter; and $0.54/Mcf for the first six months of 2005, compared with $0.60/Mcf for the first six months of 2004.
 
 
Sales volumes of company-produced gas net of the royalty owners' interest declined 6.6 percent in the quarter-to-quarter comparison. The decline primarily was due to reduction in gas produced in association with the Buchanan Mine fire and because of transportation restrictions on the interstate pipeline through which the company's gas is transported. Net gas price received was essentially unchanged in the period-to-period comparison.
 
The reduction in expected gas production associated with the Buchanan Mine fire during the quarter was 2.2 Bcf (gross) and was 3.6 Bcf (gross) for the entire period during which the mine was idle. Gas curtailments related to transportation constraints in the quarter were 0.9 Bcf (gross).
 
Unit costs of production (net of production taxes) were $1.49 per Mcf, an increase of 15.5 percent compared with the same period a year earlier. Unit cost increases reflected higher lifting, administrative, and gathering costs. Per unit lifting costs increased because of loss of gob well production, which has lower than average unit lifting costs, during the Buchanan Mine fire and because of costs related to steps taken to enhance frac well production during the Buchanan fire. Gathering costs per unit of production were higher because of the purchase of additional firm transportation in Virginia, additional gas processing costs in Northern Appalachia and the effect of lower volumes on per unit fixed costs.
Developments During the Quarter
 
In April, the company completed a $750 million Senior Secured Loan Agreement to replace an existing facility of $600 million. The new agreement is a five-year revolving credit facility.
 
In May, the company announced that it planned to expand the Enlow Fork Mine in southwestern Pennsylvania. The expansion project, which is subject to final approval by the CONSOL Energy Board of Directors, is expected to add approximately seven million tons of additional capacity and be running by 2010.
 
In June, the Buchanan Mine resumed coal production following repairs of damage from a mine fire that had idled the mine since February 14, 2005. Gas production associated with mining activity also resumed.
 
Subsequent Events
 
On July 7, 2005, the company announced that it had created CNX Gas Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of CONSOL Energy Inc., to conduct its gas exploration and production activities. CONSOL Energy will contribute substantially all of the assets of its gas business, including all of CONSOL Energy's rights to coalbed methane associated with 4.5 billion tons of coal reserves owned or controlled by CONSOL Energy as well as all of CONSOL Energy's rights to conventional gas. CONSOL Energy will enter into various agreements with CNX Gas that will define various operating and service relationships between the two companies.
 
In conjunction with the creation of the new company, several CONSOL Energy executives will resign their positions with CONSOL Energy to become employees of the new company. They include: Ronald Smith, Executive Vice-President; Nicholas DeIuliis, Senior Vice President; and Gary Bench, Vice President. In addition, a separate Board of Directors will be created to govern CNX Gas. CONSOL Energy Director Phillip Baxter will resign from the Board to become Chairman of the Board of CNX Gas. In addition, CONSOL Energy Board of Director members J. Brett Harvey, James Altmeyer, Sr., and Raj Gupta will serve on both boards.
 
On the same day, CNX Gas announced that it planned to sell approximately 18.5 percent of its outstanding stock in a private transaction. Upon completion of the private transaction, CONSOL Energy expects to receive a dividend equal to the net proceeds, which could range from approximately $340 million to $390 million.
 
Outlook
 
The company provides the following update to its guidance previously provided on April 28, 2005:
 
 
Financial data in millions except unit prices. Gas volumes expressed in net revenue interest. Capital for 2006 and 2007 are estimates. Actual amounts are approved annually by the company's Board of Directors.
 
 
Gas volumes expressed in net revenue interest.
 
Production forecast represent a range of expected outcomes and are provided to assist investors with the development of quarterly or annual earnings estimates.
 
The following mines will take a one-week vacation period during the third quarter ending September 30, 2005: Bailey and Enlow Fork. The following mines will take a two-week vacation period during the third quarter: Mahoning Valley; Mine 84 and Emery. The following mines began a two-week vacation period that began June 25, 2005 and ended July 8, 2005: Shoemaker; Blacksville #2; Loveridge; Robinson Run; Amonate; and VP 8.
 
"We remain on track to meet our production targets for coal in 2005," said Harvey. "We expect steady performance from our mining complexes for the second half of the year and look for the fourth quarter to be strong." Harvey said that the VP 8 metallurgical mine in Virginia that had been scheduled to deplete at the end of the quarter just ended is developing a small longwall panel on remaining reserves that will extend the life of the mine through the end of 2005. VP 8 Mine is expected to produce about 1.6 million tons for calendar year 2005.
 
Harvey said he expects average prices received for the remaining uncommitted coal sold this year to be higher than the average realization per ton of coal sold in the first half of the year. He also noted that costs per ton of coal produced should be stable through the second half of the year.
 
"Because we have done a good job with controllable costs, our gas segment will be a strong contributor in 2005 despite the impacts on production from the Buchanan Mine fire and the shipping curtailments on the Columbia KA-20 line," Harvey noted. He said production guidance for the gas segment reflects previously disclosed transportation restrictions. "However, the Jewell Ridge lateral line being constructed by a subsidiary of Duke Energy is on schedule to be completed next summer. We expect this to alleviate the transportation problems and give us access to new markets for our gas."
Harvey assessed energy fundamentals as remaining strong. "Solid economic growth in the United States and hot summer temperatures across most of the nation have resulted in near record electricity generation," he said. "As a result, demand for coal has remained strong. And despite higher gas injection volumes that we might have expected given the hot weather, both NYMEX and cash prices at Henry Hub remain well above $7.00 per mcf."
 
Harvey said he expects eastern coal contract prices for 2006 and 2007 to continue to show improvement. "The high Btu coals are clearly in demand, particularly with the continuing transportation problems in the west," he said. "With a number of power producers planning to accelerate the retrofitting of scrubbers on their plants, we expect that our strategically located, high-Btu coals will be a product customers will want."
 
Harvey said he expects the company to continue to generate both top and bottom line growth through the forecast period.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in seven states. In addition, the company is one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane with daily gas production of approximately 139.6 million cubic feet (at 12/31/04) from wells in Pennsylvania, Virginia and West Virginia. The company also has a joint-venture company to produce natural gas in Virginia and Tennessee, and the company produces electricity from coalbed methane at a joint-venture generating facility in Virginia.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com.
 
Definition: EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
 
CONSOL Energy
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast, " "estimate, " "intend, " "predict, " and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: All production figures include CONSOL Energy's portion of production from equity affiliates.
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
June QTR
In Millions
 
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
June YTD
In Millions
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
27-Jul-05
 
 
 
 
 
SOURCE CONSOL Energy Inc.
CONTACT: Thomas F. Hoffman of CONSOL Energy Inc., +1-412-831-4060
 
"Safe Harbor" Statement under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995: Statements in this press release regarding CONSOL Energy's business which are not historical facts are "forward-looking statements" that involve risks and uncertainties. For a discussion of such risks and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those contained in the forward-looking statements, see "Risk Factors" in the Company's Annual Report or Form 10-K for the most recently ended fiscal year.


