FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20051027103303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on October 27, 2005 announcing its 2005 third quarter results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibit.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 27, 2005
 

CONSOL Energy Announces Third Quarter Results
Thursday October 27, 7:30 am ET
 
PITTSBURGH, Oct. 27 /PRNewswire-FirstCall/  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: - ), a high-Btu bituminous coal and a coalbed methane gas company, reported record earnings of $377.0 million, or $4.04 per diluted share, for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005, compared with a loss of $11.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the same period a year earlier. Net cash from operating activities was $32.9 million for the September 2005 quarter, compared with $7.7 million in the same period a year earlier.
CNX
News
 
FINANCIAL RESULTSPeriod-To-Period Comparison
 
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates. Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to mineral leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates; Proceeds from Sales of Assets; Proceeds from sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas and changes in restricted cash. *Before cumulative effect of accounting change.
 
"This was solid performance from our ongoing operations in a quarter that, historically, has been weak for us," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "Expanded coal and gas production coupled with higher prices for both coal and gas greatly improved third quarter performance compared with last year."
 
Harvey also commented on the contribution from the company's initiative on CNX Gas. "As we pledged we would do, we established the value of our gas business in the market and monetized a portion of that value during the quarter," Harvey explained. "We see this as a successful strategic financial initiative that resulted in record quarterly earnings for CONSOL Energy."
 
In July, CONSOL Energy created CNX Gas Corporation. In August, CNX Gas Corporation subsequently sold 18.5 percent of its shares to outside investors and returned the proceeds of that sale to CONSOL Energy as a special dividend. CONSOL Energy retains an 81.5 percent ownership in CNX Gas Corporation.
 
"Our strategy regarding CNX Gas allows us to participate meaningfully in their substantial upside potential, while still rewarding our shareholders with record earnings for the quarter," Harvey said.
 
"Coal and gas markets during the quarter continued to improve," Harvey said, "reflecting a relatively warm summer and domestic economic growth, both of which drove the strong increase in demand for electricity." The company estimates that contract prices for the company's Pittsburgh seam coals have increased for all but the highest sulfur coal during the quarter just ended.
 
"The continued improvement in contract pricing is reflected to some extent in the improvement in average realized prices for the September 2005 quarter," Harvey said, "but it is reflected even more so
in the improvement in pricing we are able to secure for coal being sold in the next several years." He said he expected prices for the highest sulfur Northern Appalachian coals to rise over time as power plant operators complete announced additions of sulfur removal equipment to their existing power plants.
 
Period-To-Period Analysis of the Quarter
 
Total revenue and other income increased 83.0 percent, primarily reflecting the gain on the sale of 18.5 percent of CNX Gas Corporation, increased production of coal and gas, and higher prices received for coal and gas.
 
Total costs increased 20.9 percent.
 
Costs of goods sold increased 22.3 percent primarily due to higher costs for produced coal, reflecting greater produced coal volumes, higher contract mining fees, higher supply and labor costs, higher gas unit costs of production, and higher costs for purchased gas (offset by a commensurate increase in purchased gas sales revenue).
 
Selling, general and administrative costs increased 32.4 percent, reflecting increased professional consulting services related to various corporate initiatives.
 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased 1.7 percent reflecting increased depreciation, depletion and amortization of gas gathering placed in service after the third quarter of 2004.
 
Interest expense increased 8.3 percent, reflecting reduced amounts of interest capitalized in the quarter just ended compared with the same quarter a year ago.
 
Taxes other than income increased 16.2 percent, reflecting higher coal and gas production taxes driven by higher prices and increased produced volumes of coal and gas, and reflecting higher payroll taxes driven by increased employee-counts in coal operations.
 
Total debt decreased 0.7 percent since the beginning of the year. As of September 30, 2005, CONSOL Energy had $882.2 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $353.2 million of cash, an available accounts receivable securitization facility of $118.1 million and $410.9 million available to be borrowed under its $750 million bank facility.
 
Coal Operations
 
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. *Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Coal segment performance improved in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, reflecting significantly higher realized prices for company-produced coal, higher sales and production volumes, partially offset by an increase in unit costs of production.
 
Sales of company-produced coal increased 1.8 million tons, or 11.9 percent, in the period-to-period comparison. Average realized price for company-produced coal increased $5.97 per ton, an increase of 20.1 percent in the same comparison, reflecting improved contract and spot pricing. The company produced about 1.1 million tons of metallurgical grade coal during the quarter just ended.
 
Production of coal increased 1.6 million tons, or 10.5 percent, in the quarter-to-quarter comparison. McElroy and Bailey mines showed strong improvement in production period-to-period. Other mines, including Mine 84, Loveridge, Emery and Miller Creek, also improved production. VP 8, Shoemaker, and Buchanan mines had production declines period-to-period. Shoemaker, VP 8, Blacksville #2, Loveridge, Robinson Run and Amonate mines were on vacation the first eight days of July. Bailey and Enlow Fork mines took one week of vacation during the quarter, while Mahoning Valley, Mine 84 and Emery took a two-week vacation during the quarter.
 
Total costs for company-produced coal increased $0.80 per ton, or 2.6 percent, in the period-to-period comparison. The increase was due primarily to higher supply costs reflecting, in part, adverse mining conditions at several mines, higher contract mining fees, and higher production taxes reflecting increases in production and prices.
 
Operating margins (average realized price less operating costs) were $12.48 per ton, an improvement of 73.6 percent period-to-period, while financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $4.34 per ton in the September 2005 quarter compared with a loss of $0.83 per ton in the same quarter a year earlier.
 
Gas Operations
 
 
Volumes, including CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates expressed as net revenue interest, in billions of cubic feet (Bcf). Royalty payments, which are included in Cost of Goods Sold for gas in our income statement, were: $0.71/Mcf in the 2005 quarter, compared with $0.61/Mcf in the 2004 quarter; and $0.60/Mcf for the nine months of 2005, compared with $0.60/Mcf for the nine months of 2004. *Amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
Sales volumes of company-produced gas net of the royalty owners' interest increased 1.6 percent in the quarter-to-quarter comparison. Volumes came in at the mid-point of the previous guidance range despite the loss of some gob gas at Buchanan Mine after the September 16, 2005 skip hoist accident. Net gas price received was up 21.8 percent in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, reflecting un-hedged volumes that were sold at higher prices.
Unit costs of production (net of production taxes) were $1.41 per mcf, an increase of 6.0 percent from the prior year's quarter of $1.33 per mcf. Total costs of production and gathering were $2.65 per mcf, up 6.0 percent from the prior year's quarter of $2.50 per mcf.
 
Developments During the Quarter
 
In July, CONSOL Energy created CNX Gas Corporation as a wholly owned subsidiary. CNX Gas owns, operates and conducts CONSOL Energy's gas business. Subsequent to the creation of the new company, CNX Gas Corporation sold approximately 18.5 percent of its outstanding common stock in a private transaction.
 
In September, CONSOL Energy announced several changes in management in coal operations, coal sales and corporate functions.
 
Also in September, the Buchanan Mine, near Mavisdale, Virginia, experienced a problem with the mine's skip hoist mechanism that lifts coal from the mine to the surface, causing coal production to be suspended. The company subsequently announced that it expected to repair the problem and to return to production in November.
 
Subsequent Events
 
In October, CONSOL Energy announced the election of David C. Hardesty, Jr. to serve on the company's board of directors. Hardesty is president of West Virginia University.
 
Outlook
 
The company provides the following update to its guidance previously provided on July 28, 2005.
 
 
 
Financial data in millions except unit prices. Gas volumes expressed in net revenue interest. Capital for 2006, 2007 and 2008 are estimates. Actual amounts are approved annually by the company's Board of Directors.
*Based on current tax code.
 
 
Gas volumes expressed in net revenue interest.
 
Demand for high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States is likely to remain strong for the next several years, based on expressions of interest for multi-year contracts at today's market prices by electric power generators. Continued growth in demand for electricity, historically low inventory levels at power plants, low inventories at mine sites, low rates of capacity expansion in the bituminous coal production areas and logistical challenges in moving meaningful additional coal from distant western production areas to the eastern United States all suggest that high-Btu coals will remain in tight supply.
 
"We expect to execute a steady, disciplined growth strategy for coal in the next three years, matching our increases in production capacity with market demand," Harvey said. He said most of the capacity increases will come from efficiency projects that also lower the unit cost of coal production as well as from smaller additions to capacity at various operations in Central Appalachia.
 
He noted that larger expansions in capacity, such as the recently announced plan to expand the Enlow Fork Mine in Pennsylvania, also are part of the company's growth strategy, but are subject to the securing contracts that expand company markets at prices that produce acceptable rates of return on the capital invested. "Our focus is clear  we are prepared to meet market demands for tons provided that the market signals a willingness to provide us with fair rates of return for the investments that we make," Harvey said.
 
CONSOL Energy made progress on cost-control during the quarter just ended, Harvey noted. "We slowed the rate of cost inflation during the September quarter. We are not satisfied with where we are on the cost curve, but we believe our costs are significantly better than most eastern producers, and our coal operations managers are very focused on cost issues." Harvey said that the efficiency projects planned through 2007 should lower total company unit costs by $0.50 per ton before inflation.
 
To further control costs, a number of continuous miner development sections at the Shoemaker Mine in West Virginia will be eliminated. Harvey said that development work would be completed on the 1B and 2B longwall panels at Shoemaker and then further development at that mine would be suspended. Continuous mining unit costs are much higher than longwall mining costs.
 
"Shoemaker Mine is the only mine we have operating in the Pittsburgh Seam that does not have a full belt haulage system moving coal from the face to the preparation plant," he explained. "We would like to convert this mine to all belt haulage, but the market price for Shoemaker coal in the next few years will not justify that investment."
 
Harvey said that the plan would allow the mine to run through the spring of 2007, thereby meeting its current contractual obligations. After the 1B and 2B longwall panels have been mined, Shoemaker would be shut down.
 
"Shoemaker is our highest sulfur coal," he said. "Once power generators complete current plans for retrofitting scrubbers to their plants to remove sulfur dioxide, prices for Shoemaker coal should improve. But at the moment, Shoemaker's cost structure is uneconomic and we are not willing to operate the mine at a loss for the next several years while scrubbers are built."
 
In other coal developments, Harvey said that recent state initiatives in West Virginia and Montana that encourage the development of alternative uses to the direct combustion of coal will create unprecedented new demand for coal over the next decade.
 
"The current hurricane season has exposed the potential fragility of U.S. domestic supplies of oil and natural gas," Harvey explained. He said gasifying or liquefying the Unites States' substantial coal reserves would help to stabilize the nation's energy supplies.
 
"CONSOL Energy is in a great position to benefit from this new interest in Btu conversion," Harvey said. "We have numerous large reserve areas within our 4.5 billion ton reserve base that could provide the feedstock to large liquefaction or gasification plants."
 
Harvey also noted that the company expects to see earnings improvement at CNX Gas Corporation in 2006 due to higher forecasted levels of company production and higher expected average realized prices compared with 2005 based on current NYMEX futures.
"This year's hurricane season also has highlighted the value of onshore gas production to the nation's energy requirements," Harvey said. "A key development for CNX Gas will be the completion of Duke Energy's Jewell Ridge lateral line by next summer. This will give CNX Gas the opportunity to move more of its gas out of the Appalachian Basin to nearby markets."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in Information Week magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
www.consolenergy.com
 
Definition: EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and
"continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
September QTR
In Millions
 
 
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
September YTD
In Millions
 
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
26-Oct-05
 
 
 
Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CNX Gas because it is
widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow.
 
 
 


