FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20051031141043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 7.01, "Regulation FD Disclosure."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release on October 27, 2005 clarifying guidance relating to its 2005 third quarter results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibit.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: October 31, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
CONSOL Energy Clarifying Statement on Guidance
 
PITTSBURGH (October 27, 2005)  CONSOL Energy previously disclosed its intention to use the $420 million in proceeds from the sale of a portion of CNX Gas Corporation to accelerate certain capital projects and possibly to consider acquisitions. The guidance issued today regarding capital expenditures for 2006 and 2007 reflects previously disclosed capital expenditures guidance plus additional expenditures that the company may make. The company did not adjust previous production and DD&A guidance to reflect the impact of the discretionary additional expenditures. The company expects to make that adjustment in January 2006 after a final capital budget and long range plan are approved. The additional capital ($192 million in 2006 and $363 million in 2007) included in today's release is to be understood as discretionary.
 
President and Chief Executive Officer J. Brett Harvey said, with the exception of capital required to maintain production, that the decision to spend capital on mining projects is balanced against other uses of the cash such as acquisitions, increases in the dividend, or the repurchase of the company's common stock based upon the best use of available funds. He noted that current market fundamentals for coal and gas are strong and that investments in efficiency or expansion projects are expected to produce favorable rates of return.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


