FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060224164342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On February 21, 2006, the Board of Directors of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") amended the Company's 2004 Directors Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan") to allow the directors' earnings under the Plan to be adjusted as measured against the performance of certain authorized investments that the directors may designate. Previously, the directors' accounts in the Plan were credited based upon an established interest rate calculation. The Plan, as amended, also permits the Company, in its discretion, to make contributions to a trust to be invested and utilized to pay benefits under the Plan. In addition to the foregoing revisions, the Company is authorized to further amend the Plan to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
The Plan was adopted for the purpose of permitting members of the Board of Directors to defer all or a portion of their annual Board of Directors retainer fees and/or director meeting fees. The Plan is an unfunded and unsecured liability of the Company, and benefits will be paid from the Company's general assets, including the trust. Accordingly, participants are general unsecured creditors of the Company with respect to the benefits. A copy of Amendment No. 1 to the Plan is included as Exhibit 10.90 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Additionally, on February 21, 2006, the Board of Directors approved amendments to the forms of awards used for Company employees for non-qualified stock options and restricted stock unit awards. These amendments were undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and to otherwise clarify the terms of the awards. The forms of awards have been filed as Exhibits 10.91 and Exhibit 10.92 to this Form 8-K, respectively. Additionally the Board of Directors adopted and approved a form of restricted stock unit award agreement and deferral election form for use by award recipients that are members of its Board of Directors. That form of Board of Director award is filed as Exhibit 10.93 hereto.
On February 21, 2006 the Board of Directors, upon the unanimous recommendation of the Company's Compensation Committee, agreed to pay John Whitmire, the Company's Chairman of the Board, a one-time special director fee in the amount of $80,388 to reimburse Mr. Whitmire for additional costs, expenses and interest charges incurred as a result of an error in the Company's administration of his deferred directors fees. This amount is in addition to the other compensation that Mr. Whitmire receives as Chairman of the Company.
On February 20, 2006, the Compensation Committee also made some additional refinements to the Company's existing Short Term Incentive Compensation Plan (the "STIC").
As previously disclosed by the Company, the STIC is used to grant performance awards to the Company's executives and other employees. Cash bonuses, if any, under the STIC are based on the achievement of specified goals. In 2005, the Compensation Committee established a minimum net income threshold for plan year 2005 (the "Net Income Threshold"). For an annual award to be paid to eligible persons, the Company's Net Income Threshold must be achieved.
Furthermore, the Compensation Committee determined that, in the event the Net Income Threshold was achieved, eligible employees would receive an annual award payment based on the following formula:
In October 2005, the STIC, as approved by the Compensation Committee, stated that the "Annual Incentive Compensation Award Factor" was based on attainment of three performance targets which are weighted equally and measured independently: CONSOL companies, business unit, and individual goals. At its February 20, 2006 meeting, the Compensation Committee refined the definition of "Annual Incentive Compensation Award Factor" to be limited to two factors, weighted equally, the Company's performance and individual goals. Additionally, except for executive level employees, the Compensation Committee amended the STIC to delegate to the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and Vice President  Human Resources the Compensation Committee's administrative duties and powers under the STIC, other than setting the minimum threshold and maximum payout for the Company and amending or terminating the STIC.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: February 24, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.90
 
 
Pursuant to the authority granted to the undersigned by the Board of Directors of CONSOL Energy Inc., the CONSOL Energy Inc. Directors Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan") is hereby amended, effective February 21, 2006, as follows:
 
Sections 3.1 and 3.3 of the Plan are hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
 
The Company shall establish an Account on behalf of each Participant which shall be credited with deferred fees as provided in Section 3.2 and Earnings as provided in Section 3.3, and debited to reflect payments made to such Participant pursuant to Article IV. A Participant shall have no right to receive any amounts credited to his Account except as expressly provided in Article IV of the Plan.
3.1
.
Accounts
 
" The Participant's Account shall be adjusted by an amount equal to the amount that would have been earned (or lost) if the amounts deferred under the Plan had been invested in hypothetical investments designated by the Participant, based on a list of hypothetical investments provided by the Administrator from time to time (such hypothetical earnings or losses shall be referred to as "Earnings"). The Participant shall designate the investments used to measure Earnings from the list of authorized investments provided by the Administrator by completing the appropriate form or in such other manner as the Administrator may designate. The Participant may change such designations at such times as are permitted by the Administrator, provided that the Participant shall be entitled to change such designations at least annually. Earnings shall be credited to the Participant's Account quarterly and shall be credited to a Participant's Account until all payments with respect to such Account have been made under the Plan. Neither the Company nor the Administrator shall act as a guarantor, or be liable or otherwise responsible for the investment performance of the designated investments (including any losses sustained by a Participant) with respect to a Participant's Account.
3.3 .
Earnings
 
If a Participant fails to designate the investment of his or her Account, the Account shall be credited, on a quarterly basis, with interest based on the Interest Rate in effect on the last day of the applicable quarter. In the event any such Participant terminates service during a Plan Year, such Participant's interest credit for the quarter in which the termination occurs will be based on the Interest Rate in effect on the day of the Participant's termination and shall be pro-rated based on the Participant's service during such quarter. No interest will accrue for periods after a Participant's termination of service during the quarter."
Section 7.6 of the Plan is hereby amended and restated to read as follows:
 
"
7.6 .
Funding
 
(a) The obligation of the Company to pay benefits under this Plan shall be interpreted solely as an unsecured, unfunded, contractual obligation to pay only those amounts described in Article III in the manner, at the times and under the conditions prescribed under the terms of the Plan, and the Company shall have no obligation to fund, secure or obtain any third-party guarantee of those benefits. If any assets are set aside to provide for benefits payable under the Plan, such assets shall be subject to the claims of the Company's general creditors, and no person other than the Company shall, by virtue of the provisions of the Plan or any other agreement, have any interest in such assets.
 
(b) The Company may, in its discretion, make contributions to a trust to be invested and utilized to pay benefits under the Plan. If a trust (the "Trust") is created by the Company, the following provisions of this Section 7.6 shall apply.
 
(c) An amount equal to each Participant's deferred fees and any Earnings thereon, determined under Article III, may, in the discretion of the Company and subject to the terms of the Trust, be transferred to the Trust to be held pursuant to the terms thereof. The assets of the Trust shall be subject to the claims of the Company's creditors and shall be maintained pursuant to a separate trust document ("Trust Agreement") conforming to the terms of the model trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64.
 
(d) Any payment required to be made under this Plan to a Participant or a Beneficiary shall be paid by the trustee of the Trust (the "Trustee") to the extent of the assets held in the Trust by the Trustee, and by the Company to the extent the assets in the Trust are insufficient to pay such amount.
 
(e) The Company may direct the Trustee to invest the Trust assets in any investment that it deems appropriate, including common stock of the Company, subject to the terms of the Trust Agreement."
 
 

Exhibit 10.91
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. hereby grants an option to purchase shares of its Common Stock to the optionee named below. The terms and conditions of the option are set forth in this cover sheet and in the attached Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (together, the "Agreement") and in the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, "Plan"), the terms of which are incorporated herein by reference. To the extent the terms and conditions set forth on the Agreement differ in any way from the terms set forth in the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
 
 
By signing this cover sheet, you agree to all of the terms and conditions of the Agreement and the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained from Human Resources.
 
 
 
1. The Option granted is intended to be a Non-Qualified Stock Option and not an Incentive Stock Option under section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the "Code") (capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Plan or the cover sheet to which this Agreement is attached).
Nonqualified Stock Option.
 
2. Subject to Section 4 hereof, one-fourth of the Option shall vest and become exercisable as of the first anniversary of the Date of Option Grant ("Grant Date") and an additional one-fourth of the Option shall vest and become exercisable on each of the second, third and fourth anniversaries of the Grant Date. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Vested Portion" of the Option means that portion which: (i) shall have become exercisable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement; (ii) shall not have been previously exercised; and (iii) shall not have expired, been forfeited or otherwise canceled in accordance with the terms hereof or the Plan. For purposes of this Agreement, the term "Non-Vested Portion" of the Option means that portion of the Option that is not vested or exercisable and which has not otherwise expired, been forfeited or canceled in accordance with the terms hereof or the Plan.
Vesting.
 
3. .
Exercise of Option
 
(a) Subject to the provisions of the Plan and this Agreement (including Section 4 hereof), the Optionee may exercise all or any part of the Vested Portion of the Option at any time prior to the tenth anniversary of the Grant Date (the "Expiration Date"); provided that the Option may be exercised with respect to whole Shares only. In no event shall the Option be exercisable on or after the Expiration Date.
 
(b) To the extent set forth in subparagraph (a) above, the Option may be exercised by delivering to the Company at its principal office, or to such other location designated by the Company, written notice of intent to exercise. Such notice shall specify the number of Shares for which the Option is being exercised and shall be accompanied by payment in full, or adequate provision therefor, of the aggregate Exercise Price Per Share ("Exercise Price"), and any applicable withholding tax and fees. The payment of the Exercise Price shall be made: (i) in cash; (ii) by certified check or bank draft payable to the order of the Company; (iii) by personal check payable to the order of the Company; (iv) by tendering Shares, actually or constructively, which have been owned by the Optionee for at least six months (and which are not subject to any pledge or other security interest); or (v) by a combination of the foregoing, that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Shares so tendered to the Company as of the date of such tender is at least equal to the Exercise Price. The Optionee may elect to pay all or any portion of the Exercise Price by having Shares with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the Exercise Price withheld by
provided
the Company or sold by a broker-dealer. Subject to the preceding sentence, the Optionee may elect to sell all Shares to cover Option costs, taxes, and fees, and any remaining funds will be issued to Optionee.The payment of withholding tax shall be subject to Section 8 of this Agreement.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement to the contrary, no Option may be exercised prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of such Option or the Shares under applicable state and federal securities or other laws, or under any ruling or regulation of any government body or national securities exchange, that the Board shall in its sole discretion determine to be necessary or advisable.
 
(d) Upon the Company's determination that the Option has been validly exercised as to any of the Shares, the Company shall issue or cause to be issued as promptly as practicable certificates in the Optionee's name for such Shares. However, the Company shall not be liable to the Optionee for damages relating to any delays in issuing the certificates or in the certificates themselves.
 
4.
Termination of Employment.
 
(a) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated for Cause (or in the event that the Optionee breaches any of the covenants set forth in Sections 9 and 10 below), the Option (whether vested or unvested) shall be deemed canceled and forfeited in its entirety on the date of the Optionee's termination of employment or breach of covenant, as applicable. In addition, any Option exercised during the six month period prior to such termination of employment or breach of covenant, as applicable, shall be rescinded. Within 10 days after receiving notice of a rescission, the Optionee shall pay to the Company an amount in cash equal to the gain realized by the Optionee upon exercise of the Option. Such notice may be given at any time within one year from the date of such exercise.
 
(b) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated by the Optionee voluntarily, due to Disability or by the Company without Cause, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall be deemed canceled and forfeited on the date of Optionee's termination of employment and the Vested Portion, if any, of the Option as of the date of such termination shall remain exercisable for the lesser of (i) a period of 90 days following such termination of employment or (ii) until the Expiration Date, and, in either event, the Vested Portion shall thereafter be deemed canceled and forfeited.
 
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4(b) concerning an employment termination by the Company without Cause, in the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated by reason of a reduction in force as specified and implemented by the Company, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall continue to vest and become exercisable in accordance with the schedule established under Section 2 of this Agreement and the Option shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. In the event of such an employment termination by reason of a reduction in force, the provisions of subparagraphs 9(a)(i) and (a)(ii) shall not apply.
(d) (i) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4(b) concerning a voluntary termination, in the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated the date the Optionee has reached the age of 55 by reason of an Early Retirement or Incapacity Retirement, as defined herein, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall continue to vest and become exercisable in accordance with the schedule established under Section 2 of this Agreement and the Option shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement and unless otherwise provided by the Board at the time of such termination, the terms "Early Retirement" and "Incapacity Retirement" shall have such meanings ascribed to them in the CONSOL Energy Inc. Employee Retirement Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto applicable to the Optionee.
on or after
 
(ii) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4(b) concerning a voluntary termination, in the event that Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated by reason of a Normal Retirement, as defined herein, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall vest in its entirety on the effective date of the Optionee's retirement and the Option shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. For purposes of this Agreement and unless otherwise provided by the Board at the time of such termination, the term "Normal Retirement" shall have such meaning ascribed to it in the CONSOL Energy Inc. Employee Retirement Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto applicable to the Optionee.
 
(iii) In the event that the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) is terminated by reason of death, the Non-Vested Portion of the Option shall vest in its entirety immediately upon the date of the Optionee's death and the Option shall remain exercisable for the lesser of: (A) a period of three years following death or (B) until the Expiration Date.
 
5. Upon a Change in Control prior to the Optionee's termination of employment with the Company (including any Affiliate), the Non-Vested portion of the Option shall vest and, unless otherwise provided by separate agreement between the Company and the Optionee, the Option shall remain exercisable until the Expiration Date. Unless otherwise provided by separate agreement between the Company and the Optionee, in the event that any benefits under this Agreement, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits otherwise owed to the Optionee by the Company on or after a Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed under Section 280G of the Code, or any successor provision, to be parachute payments, the benefits under this Agreement shall be reduced to the extent necessary in the Company's good faith opinion so that no portion of the benefits provided herein shall be considered excess parachute payments under Section 280G of the Code or any successor provision. The Company's good faith opinion shall be conclusive and binding upon the Optionee.
Change in Control.
 
6. Neither the Plan nor this Agreement shall confer on the Optionee any right to continued employment with the Company (including any Affiliate). The Optionee shall not have any rights as a shareholder with respect to any Shares subject to the Option prior to the date of exercise of the Option.
No Right to Continued Employment: No Rights as a Shareholder.
7. The Option is nontransferable and may not be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Optionee, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. No transfer of the Option shall be effective to bind the Company unless the Company shall have been furnished with written notice thereof and a copy of such evidence as the Board may deem necessary to establish the validity of the transfer and the acceptance by the transferee of the terms and conditions hereof.
Transferability.
 
8. The Optionee agrees to make appropriate arrangements with the Company for satisfaction of any applicable federal, state, local or foreign tax withholding requirements or like requirements, including the payment to the Company at the time of any exercise of the Option of all such taxes and requirements, and the Company shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from the Shares transferable to the Optionee upon any exercise of the Option or from any other compensation or other amount owing to the Optionee such amount (in cash, Shares or other property, as the case may be) as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all such taxes and requirements.
Withholding.
 
9. .
Non-Competition
 
(a) The Optionee acknowledges and recognizes the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and its Affiliates and accordingly agrees that during the term of the Optionee's employment and for a period of two years after the termination thereof:
 
(i) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly engage in any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates, including, but not limited to, where such engagement is as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 1% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), consultant, advisor, agent or sales representative, in any geographic region in which the Company or any of its Affiliates conducted any such competing line of business;
 
(ii) The Optionee will not perform or solicit the performance of services for any customer or client of the Company or any of its Affiliates;
 
(iii) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates to (1) engage in any activity or conduct which is prohibited pursuant to this subparagraph 9(a), or (2) terminate such employee's employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Moreover, the Optionee will not directly or indirectly employ or offer employment (in connection with any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates) to any person who was employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for a period of at least 12 months; and
(iv) The Optionee will not directly or indirectly assist others in engaging in any of the activities, which are prohibited under subparagraphs (i) - (iii) above.
 
(b) It is expressly understood and agreed that although the Optionee and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 9 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against the Optionee, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
10. . The Optionee and the Company agree that certain materials, including, but not limited to, information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, the Optionee will not at any time during or after the Optionee's employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) disclose or use for the Optionee's own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or any of its Affiliates or which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of the Optionee's breach of this covenant. The Optionee agrees that upon termination of employment with the Company (including any Affiliate) for any reason, the Optionee will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that the Optionee may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. The Optionee further agrees that the Optionee will not retain or use for the Optionee's account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
Confidential Information and Trade Secrets
provided
 
11. The Optionee acknowledges that a violation or attempted violation on the Optionee's part of Sections 9 and 10 will cause irreparable damage to the Company and its Affiliates, and the Optionee therefore agrees that the Company and its Affiliates shall be entitled as a matter of right to an injunction, out of any court of competent jurisdiction, restraining any violation or further violation of such promises by the Optionee or the Optionee's employees, partners or agents. The Optionee agrees that such right to an injunction is cumulative and in addition to whatever other remedies the Company (including any Affiliate) may have under law or equity.
Remedies.
12. The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not A Waiver.
 
13. Upon the acquisition of any Shares pursuant to the exercise of the Option, the Optionee or the Optionee's transferee, if applicable, will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request in order to comply with applicable securities laws, with this Agreement, or as the Company otherwise deems necessary or advisable.
Securities Laws.
 
14. This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law.
 
15. This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto, or as otherwise provided under the Plan. Notwithstanding, the Company may, in its sole discretion and without the Optionee's consent, modify or amend the terms and conditions of this award, impose conditions on the timing and exercise of the Option, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause this award to comply with Section 409A of the Code (or an exception thereto). Notwithstanding, the Optionee recognizes and acknowledges that Section 409A of the Code may impose upon the Optionee certain taxes or interest charges for which the Optionee is and shall remain solely responsible.
Amendments.
 
16. . Any notice, request, instruction or other document given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed and delivered, in the case of the Company, to the Secretary of the Company at the principal office of the Company and, in the case of the Optionee, to the Optionee's address as shown in the records of the Company or to such other address as may be designated in writing by either party.
Notices
 
17. . This Award is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Agreement will govern and prevail.
Award Subject to Plan; Amendments to Award
 
18. . Any failure of the Optionee to sign and return this Agreement to the Vice President of Human Resources within 60 days of the Date of Option Grant will result in revocation of this Option offer and all provisions of this Agreement will expire and will be canceled and forfeited.
Lapse of Offer
 
19. . This Agreement and the Plan are intended to be the final, complete, and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between Optionee and the Company with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement. This Agreement and the Plan supersede all other prior agreements, communications, and statements, whether written or oral,
Entire Agreement
express or implied, pertaining to that subject matter. This Agreement and the Plan may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous statements or agreements, oral or written, and may not be explained or supplemented by evidence of consistent additional terms.
 
By signing the cover sheet of this Agreement, you agree to all of the terms and conditions described above and in the Plan.

Exhibit 10.92
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") hereby awards you restricted stock units under the Plan. The terms and conditions of this award are set forth in this cover sheet, the "Terms and Conditions" attachment hereto and the Plan. To the extent the terms and conditions set forth on this cover sheet or the attachment differ in any way from the terms set forth in the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
 
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein or in the "Terms and Conditions" attachment hereto shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
You have sixty (60) days following the date of this letter in which to sign and return to the Company the Acknowledgment section below in order to indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions of your award as set forth above and in the attached Terms and Conditions. If you do not do so, your award will become null and void.
 
 
I hereby acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the restricted stock unit award evidenced hereby, including the attached TERMS AND CONDITIONS. I further acknowledge and agree that those terms and conditions, and the provisions of the Plan, set forth the entire understanding between the Company and me regarding my entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award and supersede all prior oral and written agreements on that subject.
 
 
 
 
 
The restricted stock units under the Company's Equity Incentive Plan ("Plan") will entitle you to receive shares of the Company's common stock in a series of installments over your period of continued employment with the Company. Each unit represents the right to receive one share of common stock following the vesting date of that unit. Unlike a typical stock option program, the shares will be issued to you as a bonus for your continued service over the vesting period, without any cash payment required from you. However, you must pay the applicable income and employment withholding taxes (described below) when due.
 
The terms and provisions of your award are subject to the provisions of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request from Human Resources.
 
Other important features of your award may be summarized as follows:
 
All of the shares subject to your award will vest (i.e., will not be subject to forfeiture as the result of employment termination) upon the occurrence of any of the following events, and (except as otherwise specified below and subject to the terms of your deferral election form, if any) such vested shares will be delivered to you on such termination date, or as soon as administratively practical thereafter (but in no event later than 15th day of third month following such date):
Special Vesting Rules:
 
 
 
 
In no event will any special vesting of your shares occur should your employment with the Company be terminated for Cause (as such term is defined in the Plan) or should you leave the Company's employ for any reason other than in connection with one of special vesting events specified above.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision contained herein to the contrary, the delivery of any vested shares may be delayed until six (6) months after your termination of employment to the extent required by Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code.
 
Should you cease employment under circumstances which do not otherwise entitle you to the special vesting of the unvested shares subject to your award, then your award will be cancelled with respect to those unvested shares, and the number of your restricted stock units will be reduced accordingly. You will thereupon cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any shares of common stock under those cancelled units.
Forfeitability:
 
Should your employment be terminated for "Cause" (as defined in the Plan) or should you breach any of the non-competition or proprietary information covenants set forth in the section below, then not only will your award be cancelled with respect to any unvested shares at the time subject to your award, but you will also forfeit all of your right, title and interest in and to any shares which have vested under your award and which are either held by you at that time or are otherwise subject to deferred issuance. The certificates for any vested shares you hold at the time of such termination or breach must be promptly returned to the Company, and the Company will in addition impose an immediate stop transfer order with respect to those certificates. Accordingly, upon such termination of your employment or breach of any of your non-competition or proprietary information covenants below, you will cease to have any further right or entitlement to receive or retain the shares of common stock subject to your forfeited award. In addition, to the extent you have sold any of your vested shares within the six (6)-month period ending with the date of your termination for Cause or your breach of any covenant set forth in the section below or at any time thereafter, then you will be required to repay to the Company, within ten (10) days after receipt of written demand from the Company, the cash proceeds you received upon each such sale, provided such demand is made by the Company within one year after the date of that sale.
Covenants
Covenants
 
The shares issued to you following the vesting of your award will be registered under the federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, subsequent sales of those shares will be subject to any market black-out periods the Company may impose from time to time and must be made in compliance with the Company's insider trading policies.
Transferability:
 
Prior to your actual receipt of the shares in which you vest under your award, you may not transfer any interest in your award or the underlying shares or pledge or otherwise hedge the sale of those shares, including (without limitation) any short sale, put or call option or any other instrument tied to the value of those shares. However, your right to receive any shares which have vested under your restricted stock units but which remain unissued at the time of your death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of your will or the laws of inheritance following your death.
 
You will recognize ordinary income for federal income tax purposes on the date the shares which vest under your award are actually issued to you, and you must satisfy your income tax withholding obligation applicable to that income. The amount of your taxable income will be equal to the closing selling price per share of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the issue date times the number of shares issued to you on that date.
Federal Income Taxation:
 
You will be liable for the payment of the employee share of the FICA (Social Security and Medicare) taxes applicable to the shares subject to your award at the time those shares vest, and not at the time they are subsequently issued. No additional FICA taxes will be due when the shares are actually issued. FICA taxes will be based on the closing selling price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange on the date those shares vest under the award.
FICA Taxes:
 
You must pay all applicable federal and state income and employment withholding taxes when due. Those taxes will be deducted from your paycheck on the pay day coincident with or next following the date on which such liability arises, unless you elect to satisfy your withholding tax liability through either of the following alternatives:
Withholding Taxes:
 
 
 
You will not have any stockholder rights, including voting rights and actual dividend rights, with respect to the shares subject to your award until you become the record holder of those shares following their actual issuance to you and your satisfaction of the applicable withholding taxes.
Stockholder Rights:
 
Should a regular cash dividend be declared on the Company's common stock at a time when unissued shares of such common stock are subject to your award, then the number of shares at that time subject to your award will automatically be increased by an amount determined in accordance with the following formula, rounded down to the nearest whole share:
Dividend Equivalent Rights:
 
 
 
The additional shares resulting from such calculation will be subject to the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, any applicable vesting requirements, forfeiture provisions and deferral election) as the unissued shares of common stock to which they relate under the award.
 
In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitilization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other similar change affecting the Company's outstanding common stock as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, the number and/or class of securities subject to your award will be appropriately adjusted to preclude any dilution or enlargement of your rights under the award.
Other Adjustments:
 
In the event of a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Plan), all of the then-unvested shares subject to your award will vest in full on an accelerated basis, and the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your vested units, including those which vest on such an accelerated basis, will be issued contemporaneous with the completion of the Change in Control transaction whether or not you have elected a later deferred distribution date.
Change in Control:
 
However, if such accelerated vesting of the shares subject to your award, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits to which you may otherwise become entitled from the Company in connection with the Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed to be a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code (or any successor provision), then, unless any agreement between you and the Company provides otherwise, the number of shares which are to vest on such an accelerated basis under your award will be reduced to the extent necessary to assure, in the Company's good faith opinion, that no portion of your accelerated award will be considered such a parachute payment. The Company's good faith opinion on this matter will be conclusive and binding upon you and your successors.
 
As a further condition to your right and entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your award, you hereby agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the following non-competition and proprietary information covenants:
Covenants:
 
.
Non-Competition Covenant
 
You hereby acknowledge and recognize the highly competitive nature of the business of the Company and its Affiliates (as such term is defined in the Plan) and accordingly agree that during the term of your employment and for a period of two years immediately thereafter:
 
(a) You will not directly or indirectly engage in any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates, including (without limitation) any engagement as an officer, director, proprietor, employee, partner, investor (other than as a holder of less than 1% of the outstanding capital stock of a publicly traded corporation), consultant, advisor, agent or sales representative, in any geographic region in which the Company or any of its Affiliates conduct any such competing line of business.
 
(b) You will not perform (or otherwise solicit the performance of) services for any customer or client of the Company of any of its Affiliates.
1
 
(c) You will not directly or indirectly induce any employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates to (i) engage in any activity or conduct which is prohibited pursuant to this non-competition covenant or (ii) terminate such
 
 
individual's employment with the Company or any of its Affiliates. Moreover, you will not directly or indirectly employ or offer employment (in connection with any business which is in competition with any line of business conducted by the Company or any of its Affiliates) to any person who was employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates unless such person shall have ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its Affiliates for a period of at least 12 months.
 
(d) You will not directly or indirectly assist others in engaging in any of the activities which are prohibited under subparagraphs (a) through (c) above.
 
It is expressly understood and agreed that although you and the Company consider the foregoing restrictions to be reasonable, should a final judicial determination be made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this agreement is an unenforceable restriction against you, the provision of this agreement will not be rendered void but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time and territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable. Alternatively, should any court of competent jurisdiction find that any restriction contained in this agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
Proprietary Information Covenant.
 
You and the Company agree that certain materials, including (without limitation) information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, you will not at any time during or after your employment with the Company disclose or use for your own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or any of its Affiliates or which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of your breach of this covenant. You agree that upon termination of your employment with the Company for any reason, you will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that you may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. You further agree that you will not retain or use for your own account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
provided
 
: The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not A Waiver
 
: The Company may at any time place legends referencing the provisions of this Agreement, and any applicable federal or state securities law restrictions on all certificates, if any, representing the shares relating to this award.
Legends
 
: This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
: This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto, or as otherwise provided under the Plan. Notwithstanding, the Company may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, modify or amend the terms and conditions of this award, impose conditions on the timing and effectiveness of the issuance of the shares, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause this award to comply with Section 409A of the Code (or an exception thereto). Notwithstanding, you recognize and acknowledge that Section 409A of the Code may impose upon you certain taxes or interest charges for which you are and shall remain solely responsible.
Amendments
 
: Any notice, request, instruction or other document given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed and delivered, in the case of the Company, to the Secretary of the Company at the principal office of the Company and, in your case, to your address as shown in the records of the Company or to such other address as may be designated in writing by either party.
Notices
 
This Award is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Agreement will govern and prevail.
Award Subject to Plan:
 
: Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement, this Agreement and the Plan are: (i) intended to be the final, complete, and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between you and the Company with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement; (ii) supersede all other prior agreements, communications, and statements, whether written or oral, express or implied, pertaining to that subject matter; and (iii) may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous statements or agreements, oral or written, and may not be explained or supplemented by evidence of consistent additional terms.
Entire Agreement
 
An updated prospectus summarizing the principle features of that plan has been prepared and distributed by the Company; additional copies of the updated prospectus are available upon request from the Corporate Secretary at the Company's executive offices at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241. Attached hereto is a special supplement to such prospectus which provides certain other relevant information concerning your award. Please review both the updated plan prospectus and the supplement carefully so that you fully understand your rights and benefits under your award and the limitations, restrictions and vesting provisions applicable to the award.
Prospectus:
 
Nothing in the program will provide you with any right to continue in the Company's employ for any period of specific duration or interfere with or otherwise restrict in any way your rights or the rights of the Company to terminate your service at any time for any reason, with or without cause. Your employee status with the Company will accordingly remain at will.
Employment at Will:
 
Attachments:
 
Exhibit I Supplement to Prospectus for Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
 
I understand that the above elections will be effective only if this form is completed and executed by me and returned to the Company .
on or before April 30, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.93
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") hereby awards you restricted stock units under the Plan. The terms and conditions of this award are set forth in this cover sheet, the "Terms and Conditions" attachment hereto and the Plan. To the extent the terms and conditions set forth on this cover sheet or the attachment differ in any way from the terms set forth in the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern.
 
Capitalized terms not otherwise defined herein or in the "Terms and Conditions" attachment hereto shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan.
 
 
 
You have sixty (60) days following the date of this letter in which to sign and return to the Company the Acknowledgment section below in order to indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions of your award as set forth above and in the attached Terms and Conditions.
 
 
I hereby acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the restricted stock unit award evidenced hereby, including the attached TERMS AND CONDITIONS. I further acknowledge and agree that those terms and conditions, and the provisions of the Plan, set forth the entire understanding between the Company and me regarding my entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to such award and supersede all prior oral and written agreements on that subject.
 
 
 
 
The restricted stock units under the Company's Equity Incentive Plan ("Plan") will entitle you to receive shares of the Company's common stock in a series of installments over your period of continued service with the Company. Each unit represents the right to receive one share of common stock following the vesting date of that unit. Unlike a typical stock option program, the shares will be issued to you as a bonus for your continued service over the vesting period, without any cash payment required from you. However, you must pay the applicable income taxes (described below) when due.
 
The terms and provisions of your award are subject to the provisions of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request from Human Resources.
 
Other important features of your award may be summarized as follows:
 
All of the shares subject to your award will vest (i.e., will not be subject to forfeiture as the result of service termination) upon the occurrence of any of the following events, and (subject to the terms of your deferral election form, if any) such vested shares will be delivered to you on such termination date, or as soon as administratively practical thereafter (but in no event later than 15th day of third month following such date):
Special Vesting Rules:
 
 
 
In no event will any special vesting of your shares occur should your service with the Company be terminated for Cause (as such term is defined in the Plan) or should you leave the Company's service for any reason other than in connection with one of the special vesting events specified above.
 
Should you cease service under circumstances which do not otherwise entitle you to the special vesting of the unvested shares subject to your award, then your award will be cancelled with respect to those unvested shares, and the number of your restricted stock units will be reduced accordingly. You will thereupon cease to have any right or entitlement to receive any shares of common stock under those cancelled units.
Forfeitability:
 
Should your service be terminated for "Cause" (as defined in the Plan) or should you breach the proprietary information covenant set forth below, then not only will your award be cancelled with respect to any unvested shares at the time subject to your award, but you will also forfeit all of your right, title and interest in and to any shares which have vested under your award and which are either held by you at that time or are otherwise subject to deferred issuance. The certificates for any vested shares you hold at the time of such termination or breach must be promptly returned to the Company, and the Company will in addition impose an immediate stop transfer order with respect to those certificates. Accordingly, upon such termination of your service or breach of the proprietary information covenant below, you will cease to have any
 
further right or entitlement to receive or retain the shares of common stock subject to your forfeited award. In addition, to the extent you have sold any of your vested shares within the six (6)-month period ending with the date of your termination for Cause or your breach of the proprietary information covenant below or at any time thereafter, then you will be required to repay to the Company, within ten (10) days after receipt of written demand from the Company, the cash proceeds you received upon each such sale, provided such demand is made by the Company within one year after the date of that sale.
 
The shares issued to you following the vesting of your award will be registered under the federal securities laws and will be freely tradable upon receipt. However, subsequent sales of those shares will be subject to any market black-out periods the Company may impose from time to time and must be made in compliance with the Company's insider trading policies.
Transferability:
 
Prior to your actual receipt of the shares in which you vest under your award, you may not transfer any interest in your award or the underlying shares or pledge or otherwise hedge the sale of those shares, including (without limitation) any short sale, put or call option or any other instrument tied to the value of those shares. However, your right to receive any shares which have vested under your restricted stock units but which remain unissued at the time of your death may be transferred pursuant to the provisions of your will or the laws of inheritance following your death.
 
You will recognize ordinary income for federal income tax purposes on the date the shares which vest under your award are actually issued to you, and you must satisfy your income and other tax obligation applicable to that income. The amount of your taxable income will be equal to the closing selling price per share of the Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the issue date times the number of shares issued to you on that date.
Federal Income Taxation:
 
You will not have any stockholder rights, including voting rights and actual dividend rights, with respect to the shares subject to your award until you become the record holder of those shares following their actual issuance to you.
Stockholder Rights:
 
Should a regular cash dividend be declared on the Company's common stock at a time when unissued shares of such common stock are subject to your award, then the number of shares at that time subject to your award will automatically be increased by an amount determined in accordance with the following formula, rounded down to the nearest whole share:
Dividend Equivalent Rights:
 
 
The additional shares resulting from such calculation will be subject to the same terms and conditions (including, without limitation, any applicable vesting requirements, forfeiture provisions and deferral election) as the unissued shares of common stock to which they relate under the award.
 
In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitilization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other similar change affecting the Company's outstanding common stock as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, the number and/or class of securities subject to your award will be appropriately adjusted to preclude any dilution or enlargement of your rights under the award.
Other Adjustments:
 
In the event of a Change in Control (as such term is defined in the Plan), all of the then-unvested shares subject to your award will vest in full on an accelerated basis, and the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your vested units, including those which vest on such an accelerated basis, will be issued contemporaneous with the completion of the Change in Control transaction whether or not you have elected a later deferred distribution date.
Change in Control:
 
However, if such accelerated vesting of the shares subject to your award, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits to which you may otherwise become entitled from the Company in connection with the Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed to be a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (or any successor provision), then, unless any agreement between you and the Company provides otherwise, the number of shares which are to vest on such an accelerated basis under your award will be reduced to the extent necessary to assure, in the Company's good faith opinion, that no portion of your accelerated award will be considered such a parachute payment. The Company's good faith opinion on this matter will be conclusive and binding upon you and your successors.
 
As a further condition to your right and entitlement to receive the shares of the Company's common stock subject to your award, you hereby agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the following proprietary information covenant:
Proprietary Information Covenant:
 
You and the Company agree that certain materials, including (without limitation) information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, you will not at any time during or after your service with the Company disclose or use for your own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or
provided
 
any of its Affiliates or which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of your breach of this covenant. You agree that upon termination of your service with the Company for any reason, you will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that you may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. You further agree that you will not retain or use for your own account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
 
: The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not A Waiver
 
: The Company may at any time place legends referencing the provisions of this Agreement, and any applicable federal or state securities law restrictions on all certificates, if any, representing the shares relating to this award.
Legends
 
: This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
 
: This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto, or as otherwise provided under the Plan. Notwithstanding, the Company may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, modify or amend the terms and conditions of this award, impose conditions on the timing and effectiveness of the issuance of the shares, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause this award to comply with Section 409A of the Code (or an exception thereto). Notwithstanding, you recognize and acknowledge that Section 409A of the Code may impose upon you certain taxes or interest charges for which you are and shall remain solely responsible.
Amendments
 
Any notice, request, instruction or other document given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed and delivered, in the case of the Company, to the Secretary of the Company at the principal office of the Company and, in your case, to your address as shown in the records of the Company or to such other address as may be designated in writing by either party.
Notices
:
 
This Award is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Agreement will govern and prevail.
Award Subject to Plan:
 
: This Agreement and the Plan are: (i) intended to be the final, complete, and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between you and the Company with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement; (ii) supersede all other prior agreements, communications, and statements, whether written or oral, express or implied, pertaining to that subject matter; and (iii) may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous statements or agreements, oral or written, and may not be explained or supplemented by evidence of consistent additional terms.
Entire Agreement
 
An updated prospectus summarizing the principle features of that Plan has been prepared and distributed by the Company; additional copies of the updated prospectus are available upon request from the Corporate Secretary at the Company's executive offices at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241. Attached hereto is a special supplement to such prospectus which provides certain other relevant information concerning your award. Please review both the updated plan prospectus and the supplement carefully so that you fully understand your rights and benefits under your award and the limitations, restrictions and vesting provisions applicable to the award.
Prospectus:
 
Attachments:
 
Exhibit I Supplement to Prospectus for Equity Incentive Plan
 
 
 
 
I understand that the above elections will be effective only if this form is completed and executed by me and returned to the Company .
on or before April 30, 2006
 


