FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20061026084844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on October 26, 2006 announcing its 2006 third quarter results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: October 26, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
PITTSBURGH (October 26, 2006)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coalbed methane company, reported earnings of $50.6 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, for its third quarter ended September 30, 2006, compared with $377.0 million, or $2.02 per diluted share for the same period a year earlier. In the third quarter 2005, the company recognized a gain of $323.0 million, or $1.75 per diluted share, on the sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas.
FINANCIAL RESULTS  Period-To-Period Comparison
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates. Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to Mineral Leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates; Acquisitions and Proceeds from Sales of Assets; and $420.2 million of Proceeds from the sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas.
"Higher period-to-period prices for both coal and gas enabled us to post respectable results even though we have elected to reduce production in both Northern
and Central Appalachia and have faced several operating challenges at our mines during the quarter just ended," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer.
Harvey said revenues from sales of produced gas increased nearly 29 percent. "Although produced coal revenues declined period-to-period by approximately two percent," he noted, "tons of company-produced coal sold in the same comparison were down approximately nine percent because of the production shortfalls. However, our current pricing structure enabled us to manage through the situation. With our mines now running at expected production levels, I expect us to return to the strong performance we have had for most of the year."
On October 10, 2006, the company announced that it reduced third quarter production expectations because of production problems at several coal mines and a voluntary reduction in production at two other mines because of soft spot market conditions in Central Appalachia. Earlier in the year, the company had announced that it was idling production at the Shoemaker Mine while the company continued to upgrade the belt haulage system in the mine. However, the company reiterated its original production guidance for the fourth quarter ending December 31, 2006, saying that the mines affected by production problems had returned to expected production levels.
Period-to-Period Analysis of Financial Results for the Quarter
Total revenue and other income declined 30.1 percent, primarily due to the 2005 period gain on the sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas. In August 2005, CNX Gas, a subsidiary of CONSOL Energy, sold 27.9 million shares of common stock. CNX Gas received proceeds of $420.2 million, which it used to pay a special dividend to CONSOL Energy. The pre-tax gain on the transaction was $327.3 million.
Net cash from operating activities was $90.2 million for the quarter just ended, compared with $32.9 million for the September 2005 quarter, an increase of approximately 174 percent. The improvement in net cash from operating activities reflects changes in working capital and payments to reduce the company's accounts receivable securitization facility in the 2005 period that did not occur in the 2006 period.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization (EBITDA) was $139.1 million for the third quarter 2006 versus $452.6 million for the same period a year ago, which included the $327.3 million pre-tax gain on the sale of CNX Gas.
Third quarter 2006 earnings were impacted negatively by a pre-tax, non-cash $21.8 million charge for the acceleration of previously unrecognized actuarial losses related to the company's salary pension plan. Earnings benefited from $13 million of insurance proceeds related to the Buchanan Mine fire that occurred in 2005.
Total costs decreased 5.9 percent.
Cost of goods sold (including Purchased Gas and Gas Royalty Interests' Costs) decreased 10.5 percent, primarily reflecting lower purchased coal and gas costs period-to-period, partially offset by higher closed and idle mine costs related to the idling of the Shoemaker and VP #8 mines.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased 13.6 percent, primarily reflecting various coal assets and other projects placed in service after the 2005 period.
 
Taxes other than income increased 5.1 percent, primarily due to higher severance and other taxes attributable to higher sales prices for coal.
As of September 30, 2006, CONSOL Energy had no short-term debt and had $690 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $216 million of cash, an available accounts receivable securitization facility of $112 million and $362 million available to be borrowed under its $750 million bank facility.
Coal Operations
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. Operating Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Operating Costs Per Ton. Financial Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Total Costs Per Ton  Company Produced. *Includes 1.5 million tons of metallurgical grade coal. **Amount may not add due to rounding.
Coal segment performance for the quarter-to-quarter comparison was driven by higher realized prices and was offset by lower sales and higher costs per ton of production. Total costs per ton increased, in part, because of pension settlement charges of approximately $19.1 million, or $1.25 per ton, allocated to coal operations. This pension settlement was a non-cash charge that resulted from the acceleration of previously unrecognized actuarial losses related to the company's salary pension plan.
In the quarter-to-quarter comparison, company-produced coal production declined 1.5 million tons primarily as a result of the company's decision to idle its Shoemaker Mine in West Virginia in April of this year and to reduce production at its Jones Fork and Mill Creek mines in Kentucky during the quarter just ended. Also, production concluded at the VP #8 mine in Virginia in the Spring of 2006. In addition, geological conditions at several mines resulted in falls on major beltlines during the high humidity season as well
 
as sandstone and rock intrusions in the areas being mined. Sales of company-produced coal declined 1.5 million tons, period-to-period, partially due to the lower production.
Average realized prices increased $3.50, or 9.8 percent, reflecting higher pricing for steam and metallurgical coal.
"Despite the apparent soft spot market for coal," Harvey said, "the high percentage of coal we have already committed and priced under term contracts, coupled with strong pricing for additional tons we sold for term during the quarter just ended resulted in a 10 percent gain in period-to-period pricing and a two percent gain versus the trailing second quarter."
Total costs per ton for company-produced coal were up $4.16 period-to-period. The increase in costs per ton were attributable to the salary pension adjustment, lower sales volumes, higher contract mining fees, increases in production taxes, increased subsidence costs, higher supply costs, and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) charges.
The pension adjustment settlement added $0.08 per ton to operating costs for the period and $1.17 per ton to non-operating charges. In addition, because a significant portion of mining costs are fixed, lower than expected production will result in increased unit costs.
Operating margins (average realized price per ton less operating costs per ton) for CONSOL Energy's coal operations were $13.01 per ton, an improvement of 4.2 percent period-to-period, as average coal prices period-to-period were $3.50 per ton higher, more than offsetting increased operating costs. Financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $3.68 per ton, a decrease of 15.2 percent period-to-period, reflecting the effects of the pension settlement, higher operating costs, and higher DD&A charges.
Gas Operations
CNX Gas Corporation (NYSE:CXG), 81.5 percent of which is owned by CONSOL Energy, reported net income to CONSOL Energy of $30.6 million for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. CNX Gas Corporation issued its earnings release on October 25, 2006.
Additional information regarding CNX Gas Corporation financial and operating results for the quarter are available in their release and can be found in the investor section of their website:
http://www.cnxgas.com
Developments During the Quarter
In July, CONSOL Energy was awarded a contract by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) to demonstrate an innovative, multi-pollutant control technology at the coal- fired, electricity-generating AES Greenidge station in Dresden, NY. The purpose of the test project is to illustrate that the combination of various emissions-control devices can cost-effectively be added to a multitude of similar units nationwide. The $33 million project will be partially funded by a $14.5 million cooperative agreement from the DOE through its National Energy Technology Laboratory, and includes design and installation of the multi-pollutant control facility, followed by more than a year of testing. The remainder of the costs will be funded by AES. Along with CONSOL Energy, major
 
participants in the test project include AES Greenidge LLC and Babcock Power Environmental Inc.
In August, CONSOL Energy entered into a new coal supply agreement with PPL Coal Supply, LLC, a subsidiary of Allentown, Pennsylvania-based PPL Corporation (NYSE: PPL). Under the agreement, CONSOL Energy expects to supply 29 million tons of high-Btu bituminous coal to two PPL generating stations in Pennsylvania for a period of 11 years beginning in 2008 and running through 2018. The coal is expected to be shipped from CONSOL Energy's Blacksville #2 Mine, which operates in Pennsylvania and from its Loveridge Mine, which operates in West Virginia, to PPL's Brunner Island Station near York Haven, Pennsylvania, and its Montour Station near Washingtonville, Pennsylvania.
On September 15, 2006, Standard & Poor's raised the company's corporate credit rating to BB from BB- and also raised the rating on the company's senior secured notes to BB+ from BB.
On September 27, 2006, Moody's raised the rating on the company's senior secured notes to Ba1 from Ba2.
Outlook
In the tables below, the company provides certain financial and production guidance measures. These measures are based on the company's current estimates and are subject to change based on changing circumstances and on risks associated with the business that are described at the end of this news release. Production guidance for 2007, 2008, and 2009 has not been revised. The company revises production guidance for out-year production annually in January.
 
 
 
The company continues to project favorable long-term supply-demand fundamentals. New coal-fired power plants are expected to be required to meet future demands for power in the United States over the next twenty years. In addition, power generators are investing substantial capital dollars to retrofit much of the existing fleet of coal-fired power plants with emission control technologies. This capital investment is expected to sustain the current record demand of coal for power generation for several decades.
Current demand for coal, however, has been impacted by relatively moderate temperatures during the first three quarters of 2006 in most parts of the country. As a result, Appalachian Basin spot prices for coal have fallen from 15 to 28 percent depending on coal type from a year earlier. However, the shift in short-term pricing has not affected the company's 2006 results because the company has nearly all of its expected production under contracts.
Spot and Term Pricing Decouple
More significantly, however, Harvey said he believes that coal markets are beginning to reflect a decoupling of spot pricing and term pricing. "Because of the substantial capital investment power generators are making in their generation assets," Harvey explained, "they are making, in effect, a commitment to the long-term operation of these units. Such a commitment requires a parallel commitment to a long-term fuel supply for those units."
He said he expects short-term and long-term coal prices to continue to diverge as fuel buyers assign additional value to fuel supply agreements that provide long-term security, reliability and flexibility of supply. "These qualities are likely to increase in value as it becomes apparent that there are few coal producers who can meet the long-term needs of plant operators. We have seen this in the long-term contracts we have signed this year."
CONSOL Energy has previously disclosed that it has signed several long-term coal sales agreements this year for an aggregate total of 230 million tons and an initial value of more than $9 billion. "In each case, the buyers assigned value to our ability to provide a long-term supply of coal, based on proximity to their plants, the diversity of transportation options and the flexibility we have to make supply commitments from multiple sources."
Harvey said that CONSOL Energy's ability to capture that value has been based not only on its large, strategically located reserve base and network of large eastern mining complexes, but also on the company's disciplined approach to capacity expansion.
Company Will Continue to Exercise Production and Investment Discipline
"As we have been saying for more than a year, we do not intend to add significant new capacity, either from existing mines or new projects, unless we have a clear signal that the market needs this additional coal." Harvey said. "Investing substantial dollars in new capacity without a parallel agreement to purchase the output from the mine amounts to speculation with the shareholders' capital, and we are not prepared to do that." He also noted that the company is prepared to idle additional existing capacity to reflect soft market conditions.
Harvey said he is prepared to delay any previously announced expansion project if the market will not support the additional supply. "For example, the Enlow Fork
 
expansion is still in the permitting process," he said. "While this is a great project that will ultimately produce great returns for shareholders, I am prepared to limit our activity just to permitting until this potential new capacity is matched with market demand."
Capital Spending to be Restrained, Costs Controlled
Harvey said he expects capital spending on coal in 2007 to be restrained. "Although we are still working through the budget process, I believe that our maintenance of production capital requirements will be reduced and we will focus most of our remaining coal capital on targeted efficiency projects that will help us control our costs."
Harvey said the production problems the company experienced during the quarter just ended will result in higher unit costs for the year than were previously forecast. However, he said that he still expects total costs to increase only about five percent compared with 2005.
Share Repurchase Program Continues
Finally, Harvey reported that the company has repurchased shares of the company's common stock under the previously announced two-year stock repurchase program that commenced in January 2006 and is authorized through December 31, 2007. "Year to date, the company has repurchased approximately 3.5 million shares at an average price of $33.11. In the first nine months of the buyback, we've repurchased more than $116 million of the $300 million authorization."
CONSOL Energy Inc., a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 equity index, has annual revenues of $3.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site:
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com.
EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
Definition:
 
 
For purposes of this press release, references to "CONSOL Energy," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us" or similar words (other than the legal names of companies) shall include CONSOL Energy Inc. and its respective subsidiaries.
Forward-Looking Statements
Various statements in this release, including those that express a belief, expectation, or intention, as well as those that are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects and our future production, revenues, income and capital spending. When we use the words "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "plan," "predict," "project," or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this release speak only as of the date of this release; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements unless required by securities law, and we caution you not to rely on them unduly. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are including this cautionary statement in this release to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf, of us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME STATEMENT BY SEGMENT
September 2006 QTD
In Millions
 
INCOME STATEMENT BY SEGMENT
September 2006 YTD
In Millions
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
 
 
 
 


