FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060126092809.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on January 26, 2006 announcing its 2005 fourth quarter results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Dated: January 26, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
PITTSBURGH (January 26, 2006)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coalbed methane company, reported earnings of $87.6 million, or $0.94 per diluted share, for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2005, compared with $67.7 million, or $0.74 per diluted share for the same period a year earlier. The company reported record annual earnings of $580.9 million, or $6.26 per diluted share, for 2005 compared with $198.6 million, or $2.18 per diluted share, for 2004. Net cash from operating activities was $218.7 million for the quarter just ended, compared with $162.8 million for the December 2004 quarter.
 
FINANCIAL RESULTS  Period-To-Period Comparison
 
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates. Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to mineral leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates; Proceeds from Sales of Assets and Proceeds of $420.2 million from sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas. *Before cumulative effect of accounting change.
"The fourth quarter was a strong quarter and 2005 was a watershed year for us in many respects," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "During the year, our mines performed well, energy prices continued to rise, and we executed our plan to establish the value of our gas business. In addition, the long term market for Northern Appalachian coal began to evolve as we had forecasted allowing us to secure, in January of this year, a major multi-year contract for high sulfur coal going to scrubbed power plants."
 
Harvey noted that several mines or complexes set production records for the year. "Bailey Mine set a new record of 11.1 million tons," Harvey said, "and the Bailey/Enlow Complex set a new record of 20.9 million tons." In addition, Harvey said that records were set at the McElroy Mine (10.4 million tons), the Loveridge Mine (6.4 million tons) and the Emery Mine (1.2 million tons). He said performance at these mines helped offset the estimated loss of approximately 2.5 million tons from the Buchanan Mine due to problems that occurred there during the year.
 
"McElroy, Loveridge and the Bailey/Enlow complex are all facilities in which we have made significant capital investments in the past three years," Harvey explained. "Our record of capital investment is one of putting our dollars to work in the right places at the right time."
 
Energy prices, in particular, were a strong driver in CONSOL Energy's fourth quarter and full year results. "Coal prices period-to-period were up more than $4.50 for the quarter just ended and more than $5.50 for the full year," Harvey noted "This is a very robust pricing environment," he said. "It has enabled us to price our short-term and long-term coal sales at levels that will continue to provide top line growth."
 
Harvey also explained that long-term coal markets are beginning to recognize the substantial value of Northern Appalachian coals. "This January, we executed a major, long-term contract with American Electric Power (AEP) for Northern Appalachian coal with a high sulfur content. We were able to do this deal because AEP, as it completes its scrubber projects, was looking for long-term, reliable supplies of coal close to their plants."
 
Harvey said he believes that other similar transactions are in the offing. "As scrubbers are added to existing plants, more power plant operators in the east will seek the advantage of fueling with high-Btu coal that is close to their plants."
 
Period-To-Period Analysis of Financial Results for the Quarter
 
Total revenue and other income improved 22.5 percent, primarily reflecting higher prices for produced coal and gas and increased revenue from the purchase of gas (offset by a commensurate increase in cost of goods sold for purchased gas).
 
Total costs increased 11.7 percent.
 
Cost of goods sold (including Purchased Gas Costs) increased 20.5 percent, primarily reflecting higher costs related to Purchased Gas (offset by a commensurate increase in Purchased Gas Revenue), higher costs for produced coal (reflecting increased supply and labor costs) and higher taxes and royalties that increased as prices rose.
 
Depreciation, depletion and amortization decreased 29.7 percent, primarily attributable to the acceleration of depreciation for equipment and facilities at Rend Lake and other idled mine locations in the 2004 period.
 
Interest expense decreased $1.4 million, or 17.5 percent, reflecting lower amounts of borrowing throughout the 2005 period.
 
Taxes other than income increased 6.2 percent, reflecting higher coal and gas production taxes related to increases in coal and gas sales prices.
 
As of December 31, 2005, CONSOL Energy had no short-term debt and had $855.9 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $340.6 million of cash, an available accounts receivable securitization facility of $102.7 million and $412.6 million available to be borrowed under its $750 million bank facility.
 
Coal Operations
 
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. *Includes .48 million tons of metallurgical grade coal.
 
 
Coal segment performance improved in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, reflecting higher realized prices for company-produced coal, offset by lower coal sales, lower coal production and higher unit costs of production.
 
Sales of company-produced coal declined 1.2 million tons, period-to-period, reflecting, in part, a decline of approximately 1.0 million tons in production from the Buchanan Mine related to a skip hoist problem that occurred in September and caused production to be suspended for most of the quarter.
 
Average realized prices increased $4.58, or 14.4 percent, reflecting improved contract and spot pricing.
 
Total costs for company-produced coal increased $3.98 per ton, or 15.3 percent, primarily reflecting a 7.8 percent decrease in production volumes (which tends to increase the unit cost impact of fixed costs), as well as higher supply costs, reflecting additional maintenance work done and higher prices for supplies, higher labor costs related to increased man-counts, as well as higher production and other taxes that rise as prices for coal rise.
 
Operating margins (average realized price less operating costs) were $14.38 per ton, an improvement of 16.5 percent period-to-period, while financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $6.33 per ton, an increase of 10.5 percent. "Margin expansion in coal production is a goal we have pursued with great urgency because it is a key driver in the overall profitability of the company," Harvey explained.
 
Gas Operations
 
CNX Gas Corporation (NYSE:CXG), 81.5 percent of which is owned by CONSOL Energy, reported net income to CONSOL Energy of $26.5 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2005, and $92.7 million for the calendar year 2005. CNX Gas Corporation issued its earnings release on January 25, 2006. Additional information regarding CNX Gas Corporation financial and operating results for the quarter and year just ended are available in that release.
 
"CNX Gas Corporation is off to a strong start as an independent company," Harvey said. "Our expectations for this investment remain very high."
 
Developments During the Quarter
 
In September, the Buchanan Mine, near Mavisdale, Virginia, suspended production following a problem with the mine's skip hoist mechanism. The hoist was repaired and production resumed on December 13, 2005. It is estimated that the mine lost approximately 1.0 million tons of production during the period that production was suspended. During that period, the company invoked the force majeure provision on all sales contracts for Buchanan Mine coal.
 
In October, David C. Hardesty, president  West Virginia University, was elected to the CONSOL Energy Board of Directors.
 
In December, the company's Board of Directors authorized a common share repurchase program of up to $300 million during the 24-month period beginning January 1, 2006 and ending December 31, 2007.
 
Subsequent Events
 
In January, CONSOL Energy announced that it had entered into a coal sales agreement with American Electric Power (AEP) for the sale of up to 82.5 million tons of high-Btu bituminous coal to various AEP coal-fired power stations over a 15-year period beginning in 2007 and running through 2021. The coal will come from the Shoemaker and McElroy mines and will be shipped to AEP power plants that have or will be equipped to have scrubbers.
 
As a result of the new contract, the company announced that it will begin a major capital improvement project for the Shoemaker Mine, replacing the mine's older, rail haulage system with a new, more efficient conveyor belt haulage system.
 
Also in January, CONSOL Energy announced that it had agreed to purchase Mon River Towing and J.A.R. Barge Lines, LP from the Guttman Group, a private concern. The acquisition will increase the size of CONSOL Energy's towboat fleet from 5 to 18 and increase the number of barges from about 300 to more than 650, increasing coal transportation capacity from 11 million tons to about 24 million tons. The transaction closed on January 20, 2006.
 
Outlook
 
In the tables below, the company provides certain financial and production guidance measures. These measures are based on the company's current estimates and are subject to change based on changing circumstances and on risks associated with the business that are described at the end of this news release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
2006 COAL CAPEX (forecast)
 
 
2006 Quarterly Production Guidance
 
 
Over the next two years, electricity generation in the United States is forecast to grow approximately 2.0% per annum, absent any adverse weather impacts. According to industry reports, coal inventories are significantly below normal in the United States and could add 10-20 million tons of demand in 2006. Furthermore, natural gas prices remain high and make gas powered generation more expensive than that of coal. These factors should contribute to an already tight supply/demand balance for U.S. thermal (steam) coal.
 
The United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) has forecasted that over the next four years there are more than 12 gigawatts of planned capacity additions from new generators that will use coal as an energy source  requiring an estimated 30 million tons of high-Btu coal per year. In addition, there are nearly 50 gigawatts of existing coal-fired power scheduled to be retrofitted with scrubbers over the same time frame. CONSOL Energy expects to benefit from: the long-term demand for high-Btu Northern Appalachia coal due to new and retrofitted scrubbers on power plants geographically located near CONSOL's mines; the growing demand for electricity generation as consumers use more electricity-dependent devices; the geological limitations of Central Appalachian coal; and the potential transportation issues associated with lower Btu coal.
 
"While the overall market for coal remains positive, we believe the growth in demand for Northern Appalachian coal will exceed the industry's organic growth by a wide-margin," Harvey said. "The transaction with AEP that we announced earlier this month is indicative of the way we see this market evolving. Major coal-burning power generators are beginning to move to the high-Btu products available close to their plants as their scrubber construction projects are completed." On January 11, 2005, CONSOL Energy announced that it had entered into a 15-year sales contract with American Electric Power (AEP) for up to 82.5 million tons of Northern Appalachian coal from CONSOL Energy's Shoemaker and McElroy mines.
 
Harvey said the company's ten-year plan for Northern Appalachia is synchronized with the addition of scrubbed power plant capacity being added. "While we are already seeing some near-term market growth, by 2008, additional scrubbed capacity will have grown significantly," he explained, "and will continue to grow from there."
 
The company has a significant amount of its 2006 coal production already sold. "This year is a bridge year for the higher sulfur Northern Appalachian coals," Harvey said. "Sulfur dioxide allowance prices are high, which restricts the market for the highest sulfur products such as those from Shoemaker." He noted that scrubber capacity begins to come on line by the end of this year. "Because of our sales position in 2006, we are largely insulated from the effects of the current price of allowances."
 
Harvey also noted that Northern Appalachian coals have a logistical advantage in many markets because the mines are located close to customers and, in many instances, have access to economical water transportation. "Our recent acquisition of Mon River Towing more than doubles our capacity to move coal on the rivers," he explained. "This gives us significant value in the market. In addition, we see our river operations as a core competency that will contribute to the bottom line."
 
Looking at forecasted capital spending, Harvey said that spending on coal projects is similar to the cycle of spending made earlier. "The production volumes and the earnings generation in coal this past year were a result not only of our sustained investment in the business," he said, "but also our investment in key expansion projects that began in mid-2002." He noted that during this multi-year period the company expanded the McElroy Mine and the Bailey Central Processing plant as well as re-activating the previously idled Loveridge Mine.
 
Capital projects approved this year are expected to result in the addition of nearly 15 million tons of gross annual production over the next four years. "These projects, many of which take several years to complete, allow us to increase production at a measured, disciplined rate as well as replace about 9 million tons of natural depletions or declines in production from existing mines," Harvey said.
 
Planned capital spending for 2006 also is expected to have a positive impact on coal unit costs. "We are forecasting an increase in cash costs per ton of only 2.5 percent compared with 2005," Harvey said, "and an increase in total costs of only 1.5 percent." He noted, however, that achieving forecasted unit costs are dependent on achieving or exceeding forecasted production volumes.
 
Harvey said the forecast for strong cash generation allows the company to fund its capital spending entirely from internally generated funds. "In addition, we will have free cash beyond our capital program to continue to reward shareholders with the highest dividend among our coal peers, as well as executing about half of our authorized share repurchase program." Late last year, the company announced that the Board of Directors had authorized the repurchase of up to $300 million of the company's outstanding common shares during the two-year period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007. "We expect to use the full authorization during that period," he concluded.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: www.consolenergy.com.
Information Week
 
EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
Definition:
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, CONSOL Energy. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. You can identify these statements by forward-looking words such as "may," "will," "expect," "anticipate," "believe," "guidance," "forecast," "estimate," "intend," "predict," and "continue" or similar words. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
December QTR
In Millions
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
December YTD
In Millions
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
 
 
 
 


