FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060315165333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On March 9, 2006, John T. Mills was elected to serve on the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company"), effective immediately, in conjunction with the Board's increase in the authorized number of directors constituting the entire Board from nine (9) to ten (10) directors.
(d)
Effective as of the same date, the Board appointed Mr. Mills to serve on the Audit Committee and the Compensation Committee of the Board.
Mr. Mills has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors of Horizon Offshore, Inc. since September 2004. Previously, Mr. Mills was employed for several years by Marathon Oil Corporation, most recently as its Chief Financial Officer, until his retirement in December 2003. The Board considers Mr. Mills to be an independent director under applicable New York Stock Exchange listing requirements. As a non-employee director of the Board, Mr. Mills will receive the same standard compensation amounts paid to other non-employee directors for service on the Board, which amounts have been disclosed previously in a Form 8-K filed by the Company with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on October 24, 2005. If Mr. Mills is a member of the Board at the annual meeting of shareholders scheduled for May 2, 2006, he will also be entitled to the Director's standard annual grant of equity valued at $85,000 under the Company's Equity Incentive Plan. There were no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Mills and any other person pursuant to his election as a director, and there are and have been no transactions since the beginning of the Company's last fiscal year, or currently proposed, regarding Mr. Mills that are required to be disclosed by Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
The Company issued a press release dated March 13, 2006, announcing the election of Mr. Mills. The press release is set forth in its entirety and filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Form 8-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: March 15, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
(March 13, 2006)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX) announces the election of John T. Mills, 58, to serve on the company's board of directors. Mills has served as chairman of the board of directors of Horizon Offshore, Inc., since 2004, after a long and distinguished career with Marathon Oil Corporation.
PITTSBURGH
"We are very pleased that John Mills has agreed to join our board," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "His tax and legal expertise, along with his knowledge and experience in coal mining, coalbed methane gas and other energy issues, should allow him to make an immediate impact."
Mr. Mills began his professional career at Coopers & Lybrand (now PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP) in 1973, and in 1976 he joined Marathon Oil Company in Findlay, Ohio as a tax specialist. He subsequently held a number of management positions within the tax organization at Marathon, becoming chief tax counsel in 1984.
In 1986, he became director of taxes and energy for USX Corporation and relocated to Pittsburgh, Pa. He was appointed vice president  taxes for USX in 1987. In September 1998, Mr. Mills was appointed senior vice president of finance and administration at Marathon Oil Company. He was appointed chief financial officer of Marathon Oil Corporation in January 2002, upon the separation of United States Steel from USX and the renaming of USX to Marathon Oil Corporation. Mr. Mills remained in that position until his retirement in December 2003.
Mr. Mills was born in Canton, Ohio in 1947. He earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Ohio University in 1969, and a law degree from the Ohio State University in 1973. He is a member of the Financial Executives Institute, the National Council of the Ohio State University College of Law Alumni Association and the Ohio Bar Association. Mr. Mills and his wife, Dorothy, reside in Houston, Texas.
CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $2.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by magazine. CONSOL Energy companies have received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for innovative reclamation practices in 2004, as well as 2002 and 2003. In 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Fortune
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com


