FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060427094243.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on April 27, 2006 announcing its 2006 first quarter results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibit.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 27, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Thomas F. Hoffman
                (412) 831-4060
PITTSBURGH (April 27, 2006)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coalbed methane company, reported earnings of $124.4 million, or $1.33 per diluted share, for its first quarter ended March 31, 2006, compared with $75.2 million, or $0.82 per diluted share for the same period a year earlier, an increase of more than 65 percent.
Net cash from operating activities was $152.5 million for the quarter just ended, compared with $95.7 million for the March 2005 quarter, an increase of more than 59 percent.
FINANCIAL RESULTS  Period-To-Period Comparison
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures include acquisitions and do not include amounts for equity affiliates. *Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to mineral leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates and proceeds from sales of assets. Bracketed number indicates cash inflow.
"The first quarter was another very strong quarter for us," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer, "and we are on track to achieve our financial objectives for the year. The pricing environment
for our coal is excellent, allowing us to grow our revenues and to achieve our primary goal of expanding our margins." Total Revenue and Other Income grew nearly 21 percent, primarily on the strength of our coal and natural gas pricing. Operating margins (averaged realized price per ton less operating costs per ton) for CONSOL Energy's coal operations were more than $15 during the quarter, an increase of almost 16 percent period-to-period, as average coal prices period-to-period were $4.71 per ton higher, the sixth straight quarter CONSOL Energy has reported higher average realized prices compared to the trailing quarter.
Harvey said he was particularly pleased with the period-to-period improvement in net income, given the strong first quarter results for 2005, when net income increased 129 percent, period-to-period, before the effects of an accounting change. "Increasing net income 65 percent after a 129 percent increase in the two period-to-period comparisons, shows the type of earnings power the company's assets have."
In addition, he noted that results were strong compared with the previous quarter as well. "As was the case in the fourth quarter last year, our mines ran well, with production for the first quarter at the upper end of our expected range," Harvey added. "Moreover, our long-term strategy to expand markets for our high-Btu, Northern Appalachia bituminous coal in concert with the completion of scrubber retrofits at numerous power generating units in the Eastern United States continues to be validated in the market."
Period-To-Period Analysis of Financial Results for the Quarter
Total revenue and other income improved 20.7 percent, primarily reflecting higher realized pricing for both the coal and gas segments.
During the quarter, the company received $21 million of business interruption insurance proceeds related to the skip hoist problem at the Buchanan Mine in September 2005.
Total costs increased 9.0 percent.
Cost of goods sold (including Purchased Gas Costs) increased 6.3 percent, primarily reflecting higher costs for supplies, increased labor costs related to training of new employees, as well as higher contract mining fees and royalties.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased 13.3 percent, primarily reflecting various coal assets and other projects placed in service after the 2005 period.
Interest expense decreased $1.1 million, or 15.5 percent, reflecting higher capitalized interest attributable to the increased number of capital projects being funded from operating cash flow in 2006.
Taxes other than income increased 20.9 percent, primarily due to higher severance and other taxes attributable to higher sales prices and higher volumes for the coal and gas segments.
As of March 31, 2006, CONSOL Energy had no short-term debt and had $797 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $303 million of cash, an available accounts receivable securitization facility of $124 million and $370 million available to be borrowed under its $750 million bank facility.
 
Coal Operations
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates and acquisitions. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. Amounts may not add due to rounding. Operating margins per ton are defined as average realized price per ton less operating costs per ton. Financial margins per ton are defined as average realized price per ton less total costs per ton  company produced.
Coal segment performance improved in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, driven by substantially higher realized prices and higher sales, and was partially offset by higher unit costs of production.
Sales of company-produced coal increased 0.4 million tons, period-to-period.
Average realized prices increased $4.71, or 13.4 percent, reflecting improved contract and spot pricing for steam and metallurgical coal.
Total costs for company-produced coal increased $2.65 per ton, which was in line with internal company expectations for the first quarter. The company expects total costs to increase year-over-year approximately two percent.
Operating margins (average realized price per ton less operating costs per ton) were $15.64 per ton, an improvement of 15.5 percent period-to-period, while financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $8.59 per ton, an increase of 31.6 percent period-to-period.
Gas Operations
CNX Gas Corporation (NYSE:CXG), 81.5 percent of which is owned by CONSOL Energy, reported net income to CONSOL Energy of $37.4 million for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. CNX Gas Corporation issued its earnings release on April 26, 2006. Additional information regarding CNX Gas Corporation financial and operating results for the quarter are available in their release and can be found in the investor section of their website:
http://www.cnxgas.com
 
Developments During the Quarter
In January, the acquisition of Mon River Towing and J.A.R. Barge Lines, LP was completed. The combined river and dock operations has 18 towboats and more than 650 barges that are capable of transporting 24 million tons of coal annually.
In February, CONSOL Energy announced that it had entered into a multi-year, multi-million ton coal sales agreement with Duke Power for delivery of high-Btu bituminous coal to various coal-fired power stations in North Carolina beginning in 2007. The coal will be delivered by rail from several Northern West Virginia and Southwestern Pennsylvania mines in the Pittsburgh 8 Seam to Duke Power plants that have completed the installation of flue gas desulfurization equipment (scrubbers).
Moody's Investors Service upgraded CONSOL Energy's corporate family rating to Ba2 from Ba3 on March 30, 2006 recognizing the company's strong operational and financial performance.
In March, John T. Mills, former Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for Marathon Oil Corporation, was elected to the CONSOL Energy Board of Directors.
Outlook
In the tables below, the company provides certain financial and production guidance measures. These measures are based on the company's current estimates and are subject to change based on changing circumstances and on risks associated with the business that are described at the end of this news release. The company is reiterating its previous production forecasts for the years 2007, 2008 and 2009.
 
 
 
Supply and demand conditions continue to be favorable for the coal industry as power generators in the United States continue to announce new coal-fueled electric generating capacity projects. According to industry estimates, there are now more than 90 gigawatts of new coal-fueled electric generating capacity scheduled to come on line over the next several years, equating to more than 225 million tons of new domestic coal demand.
In addition, there is a heightened commercial and governmental interest in the coal-to-liquid process due to higher natural gas and oil prices, geopolitical exposure to foreign energy sources and increased worldwide energy demand. Using proven technology, coal liquefaction plants convert raw coal to a liquid fuel while being environmentally compatible with today's emissions requirements. The United States government has appropriated several billion dollars in loan guarantees for the construction of initial coal-to-liquid facilities, which CONSOL Energy estimates to be 50 million to 70 million tons of additional domestic coal demand.
The forward price curves for Pittsburgh 8 Seam coal, from which about two-thirds of CONSOL Energy's production is derived, are higher than current spot market prices. Harvey added, "We believe the forward pricing curve is indicative of how the marketplace for our high-Btu coal will evolve. As scrubbers are installed and retrofitted, we believe that the price of Northern Appalachia coal will converge with Central Appalachia pricing." Harvey said he expects prices for 2007 coal shipments that are yet to be priced will be at least 20% higher than business already booked in 2006 or 2007.
He also noted the competitive advantage CONSOL Energy has on the Upper Ohio River with the expansion of its river and dock operations in January. Currently, more than 15 million tons of coal used by power plants located on the Ohio River system is supplied from Central Appalachia. "As scrubbers are installed on those plants, the expansion of our river transportation operations will give us the ability to expand our customer base for Northern Appalachia coal up and down the Ohio River."
Harvey contended that the coal sales agreement with Duke Power announced in February was a further validation of the company's strategy of expanding its markets for Northern Appalachian coal as scrubber retrofits are completed. "Because many of our Northern Appalachia mines are serviced by two railroads, we have the flexibility to penetrate markets that traditionally were not served in the past," he said. "In this instance, Duke Power locked up a secure source of high-Btu coal that fits neatly with the completion of their scrubber projects and makes pure economical sense."
He said the company has managed its portfolio of contracts for Northern Appalachia to coincide with the addition of scrubbed power plant capacity being added. "The total number of scrubbed gigawatts that are scheduled to be operational by 2010 continues to grow," Harvey explained. "We have seen additional announcements for new capacity, acceleration of completion dates for retrofits and the deceleration of a few projects since we first started tracking this. Overall, growth in scrubber capacity is proceeding as we expected, particularly in our key market areas."
During the first quarter, a decision was made to idle production at the Shoemaker Mine near Moundsville, WV, beginning in mid-April 2006. Previously, the company had announced that the mine would produce coal until the fourth quarter of 2007 before production would be idled. Approximately 170 workers were part of the workforce reduction out of a total of 319 employees. The remaining employees will continue to work on the installation of the new belt haulage system.
 
"Shoemaker is at a near-term competitive disadvantage because of its older rail haulage and its high sulfur content," Harvey explained. "That will change once we complete the upgrade of Shoemaker's haulage system and markets for Shoemaker coal grow." Harvey said he expects markets for high sulfur coal to improve starting in 2007 as power plant operators complete planned scrubber installations on their existing plants. Plants equipped with scrubbers can burn high sulfur coal and still meet federal and state air quality standards.
"Accelerating the planned idling of the mine makes the best sense economically," he concluded. "It allows us to focus our efforts on the upgrade of haulage technology while eliminating from our mix, coal that currently has a high cost of production."
However, if market pricing for Shoemaker coal improves sufficiently before the scheduled completion of the haulage project in early 2009, the company could resume production at the mine using the existing haulage system while continuing to install the upgraded belt haulage.
Harvey concluded that strong cash generation allowed the company to repurchase shares during the quarter. "We repurchased 1.2 million shares at an average price of $64.43 during the quarter." For the two-year period from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007, the company received authorization from its Board of Directors to repurchase up to $300 million of the company's outstanding common shares.
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $3.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com
EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
Definition:
 
 
For purposes of this press release, references to "CONSOL Energy," the "company," "we," "our," or "us" or similar words (other than the legal names of companies) shall include CONSOL Energy Inc. and its respective subsidiaries.
Forward-Looking Statements
CONSOL Energy is including the following cautionary statement to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward looking statements made by, or on behalf, of us. With the exception of historical matters, any matters discussed are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOL Energy undertakes no obligation to update these statements unless otherwise required by applicable law
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
March 2006 QTR
In Millions
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
 
 


