FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060626170444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
Variable Long Term Incentive Compensation Award
On June 20, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company"), upon recommendation of the Compensation Committee of the Board, approved the 2006 Variable Long Term Incentive Compensation Award for J. Brett Harvey, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Variable LTIC Award"). Mr. Harvey is also a member of the Board of Directors of CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas"), a publicly-traded subsidiary of the Company. Under the Variable LTIC Award, Mr. Harvey has the right to earn variable long term incentive compensation in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. The right to receive this compensation is conditioned upon the achievement of certain pre-determined performance goals (the "Performance Goals") for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the "Performance Period"), which goals include the Company achieving certain safety targets, addressing certain Human Resource matters and attaining certain operating cash flow levels and total shareholder return levels. The Performance Goals have been assigned certain percentages relative to the Variable LTIC Award such that the achievement of any Performance Goal during the Performance Period entitles Mr. Harvey to an equivalent pro rata portion of the Variable LTIC Award. The determination of whether any Performance Goal has been achieved, and any portion of the Variable LTIC Award earned, will be made by the Board, which determination will be final, binding and conclusive. In the event Mr. Harvey is entitled to receive all or a portion of the Variable LTIC Award, he will receive payment of the value of the Variable LTIC Award earned as follows: one-half in options to purchase the Company's common stock and one-half in restricted stock units (with associated dividend equivalent rights). Any options and restricted stock units earned under the Variable LTIC Award by Mr. Harvey will be granted in 2007 in accordance with the Company's equity grant practices under the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Plan"), and subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Plan and the applicable agreements thereunder. The number of shares underlying the options granted, if any, will be determined using the Black-Scholes option valuation methodology or such other methodology as may be deemed reasonable by the Compensation Committee.
The foregoing description of the Variable LTIC Award is qualified in its entirety by the Variable LTIC Award document, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.96 hereto and is herein incorporated by reference.
Hypothetical Investment Election Forms Relating to Directors Deferred Compensation Plan and Directors' Deferred Fee Plan
Additionally, the Compensation Committee of the Board approved the hypothetical investment election forms for each of the Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended, and the Directors' Deferred Fee Plan, as amended, each of which is filed as Exhibit 10.97 and Exhibit 10.98, respectively, hereto and are herein incorporated by reference.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On June 20, 2006, the Board, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, approved stock ownership guidelines for certain of the Company's officers in order to further encourage each such officer to achieve and maintain an appropriate ownership stake in the Company. The stock ownership guidelines provide that the Company's officers (not including officers of CNX Gas) hold the following amounts of the Company's common stock (not including shares issuable upon exercise of options) in five years from the date of adoption: (i) for the Chief Executive Officer, five times base salary, (ii) for each of the Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer, three times base salary, (iii) for other executive officers, two times base salary, and (iv) for other Company officers, one times base salary.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 26, 2006
 

Exhibit 10.96
J. Brett Harvey
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1800 Washington Road
Pittsburgh, PA 15241
Re:
Variable Long Term Incentive Compensation
Dear Brett,
On June 20, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "") approved your right to earn a 2006 variable long term incentive award. The purpose of this letter is to outline the manner in which you may earn the right to receive the variable portion of your long term incentive compensation.
Board
Company
- Subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth herein, you have the right to earn variable long term incentive compensation in an amount not to exceed $1,000,000. The right to receive this compensation shall be conditioned upon the achievement of certain pre-determined performance goals and the payment thereof shall be in the form of future grants of stock options and restricted stock unit awards (hereinafter the "") as described more fully herein.
Incentive Compensation
Equity Award
- Your right to receive all or any portion of the Equity Award is conditioned upon you and the Company achieving certain performance goals determined by the Board in its sole discretion (the "") for the year ended December 31, 2006 (the ""). The Performance Goals determined by the Board will be assigned certain percentages relative to the Equity Award and the achievement of any particular Performance Goal during the Performance Period shall entitle you to an equivalent pro rata portion of the Equity Award. In the event that none of the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, you will not be entitled to receive the Equity Award; provided, however, that the Board may, in its sole discretion, grant all or any portion of the Equity Award if any or none of the Performance Goals are achieved during the Performance Period.
Performance Goals
Performance Goals
Performance Period
The determination of whether any Performance Goal has been achieved and any portion of the Equity Award earned thereby shall be made by the Board, which determination shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties.
- Subject to your continued employment with the Company and to the extent you earn the right to receive all or a portion of the Equity Award, the Company shall grant to you stock options and restricted stock units ("") with a value equal to the portion of the Equity Award earned by you. One-half of the value of the Equity Award earned by you shall be granted in options and the remaining one-half of such value shall be granted in RSUs. All such options and RSUs shall be granted under the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan, as amended (""), and shall be subject to the terms and conditions, including vesting restrictions, contained in the Company's standard Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement. Options shall be valued using the Black-Scholes option valuation methodology or such other methodology as may be deemed reasonable by the Compensation Committee of the Board (the ""). The Equity Award, if any, will be granted to you in 2007 at such time and consistent with the Compensation Committee's established practices for making equity grants under the Plan. The exercise price of any options and the value of any shares underlying RSUs issued in satisfaction of the Equity Award shall be based on the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the actual date of grant as provided under the terms of the Plan.
Equity Award
RSUs
Plan
Compensation Committee
If you should have any questions regarding this portion of your compensation package, please contact the undersigned at your convenience.
 

Exhibit 10.97
Investment Election:
Pursuant to the CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (the "Plan"), I hereby elect that the amounts I have deferred under the Plan be deemed to be invested among such hypothetical investments, and in such percentages, as specified on attached hereto.
Appendix A
Acknowledgments:
 
 
 
 
 
 
This form must be returned to to be effective on or about the next succeeding January 1st or July 31st.
                    
 
:
Please Check Appropriate Box and Complete as Necessary
 
 
In addition, I irrevocably elect to make no intraplan transfers (, change my hypothetical investment elections deemed to be invested entirely in Company common stock) during the entire deferral period.
i.e.
[Check this box only if you intend never to change your election option related to the hypothetical investments in common stock made in this election form]
 
 
 
Investment Election:
 

Exhibit 10.98
Investment Election:
Pursuant to the CONSOL Energy Inc. Directors Deferred Fee Plan (the "Plan"), I hereby elect that the amounts I have deferred under the Plan be deemed to be invested among such hypothetical investments, and in such percentages, as specified on attached hereto.
Appendix A
:
Acknowledgments
 
 
 
 
 
This form must be returned to , to be effective on or about the next succeeding January 1st or July 1st.
                    
 
I hereby elect that the amounts I have deferred under the Directors Deferred Fee Plan be deemed to be invested among the following hypothetical investments in such percentages as specified below:
 


