FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20060508162907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 2, 2006, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") approved the grant of deferred stock units ("DSUs"), including associated dividend equivalent rights, under the Company's Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Plan") to Messrs. John Whitmire, Chairman of the Board, and Raj K. Gupta, a non-employee Director on the Board. In the case of Mr. Whitmire, the Board approved the grant of 2,552 DSUs to him in lieu of a common stock grant with a value equal to $225,000 on the grant date pursuant to the Chairman Agreement, dated April 27, 2004, between Mr. Whitmire and the Company. In the case of Mr. Gupta, the Board approved the grant of 227 DSUs to him with a value equal to $20,000 on the grant date in lieu of the payment to him of $20,000 of his annual cash Board retainer.
In addition, the Board approved a revised form of the Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement on May 2, 2006 which is filed as Exhibit 10.95 hereto and is herein incorporated by reference.
Pursuant to the Plan, all non-employee Directors, excluding Mr. Whitmire, were granted an annual equity award on May 2, 2006 (which value was disclosed previously in the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K ("Form 8-K") filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on October 24, 2005). The Plan provides that unless the Board approves otherwise, an annual equity award is granted to each non-employee Director who has not received an initial stock option grant under the Plan since the Company's immediately preceding annual meeting of stockholders. As set forth in the Company's Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 15, 2006, the Board approved an annual equity award to Mr. John T. Mills. The Board also approved an annual equity award to Mr. David C. Hardesty Jr. Messrs. Mills and Hardesty were appointed to the Board after the Company's annual meeting of stockholders held on May 3, 2005 and received initial stock option grants in connection with their respective appointments.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
(a) On May 2, 2006, the Board adopted the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Second Amended and Restated Bylaws"), effective immediately upon their adoption, to supersede and replace the existing bylaws of the Company. The modifications to the former bylaws were as a result of a review of such bylaws by the Board in an attempt to prevent any inconsistency between the text of Section 3.10 of the former bylaws (which had set forth the purposes of each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board) and the statements of purpose set forth in each of the charters of such committees. Subsections 3.10(A) through 3.10(D) have been deleted from the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws to eliminate any such inconsistency.
A copy of the full text of the charters of each of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee, Finance Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of the Board may be found at www.consolenergy.com.
The foregoing is qualified in its entirety by the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws. A copy of the Second Amended and Restated Bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and a copy marked to show changes to the former bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2.1 hereto.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 4, 2006, the Company issued a press release announcing the Board's approval of a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock effected in the form of a stock dividend (the "Stock Split"). The Stock Split entitles all stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 15, 2006 to receive one additional share of common stock for every share of common stock held as of that date. The Company expects that the additional shares will be distributed on or about May 31, 2006. Any cash dividends declared in the future by the Board will be adjusted to reflect the Stock Split.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 8, 2006
 

Exhibit 3.1
CONSOL Energy Inc. (hereinafter called the "Company") filed its original Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of Delaware under the name of "Consol Inc." on October 31, 1991. An amendment to such Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of Delaware on December 11, 1991, that changed the name of the Company to CONSOL Energy Inc., and further amendments to such Certificate were so filed on October 26, 1998, and November 6, 1998.
This Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been adopted and approved by the Board of Directors and by the stockholders of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 and Section 245 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
The following Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends the existing Certificate of Incorporation of the Company by (i) amending Article FOURTH to authorize the Company to issue 15,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 each, and to increase the authorized number of shares of the common stock of the Company from 100,000 shares to 500,000,000 shares and to reduce the par value of each such share from $1.00 per share to $0.01 per share, and (ii) inserting a new Article SEVENTH containing provisions regulating the rights and duties of the Company and officers and directors of the Company who may be officers, directors, employees or agents of Rheinbraun A.G., a German corporation that is a substantial stockholder of the Company, with respect to the allocation of corporate opportunities between the two corporations.
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 245 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Company hereby certifies that:
FIRST: The name of the corporation (hereinafter called the "Company") is CONSOL Energy Inc.
SECOND: The registered office of the Company in the State of Delaware is located at 1209 Orange Street, in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The registered agent at that address is The Corporation Trust Company.
 
THIRD: The purpose of the Company is confined to the making, maintenance and management of its intangible investments and collection and distribution of income from such investments or from tangible property physically located outside the State of Delaware.
FOURTH: (i) The total number of shares of stock which the Company shall have authority to issue is fifteen million (15,000,000) shares of Preferred Stock of the par value of one cent ($0.01) per share or such other par value as may be determined pursuant to Section (ii) of this Article, and five hundred million (500,000,000) shares of Common Stock of the par value of one cent ($0.01) per share.
(ii) Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued from time to time in one or more series, as provided by the Board of Directors as permitted hereby. All shares of any one series shall be identical in all respects with all the other shares of such series, except the shares of any one series issued at different times may differ as to the dates from which dividends thereon may be cumulative.
The Board of Directors is hereby authorized, by resolution or resolutions, to establish, out of the unissued shares of Preferred Stock not then allocated to any series of Preferred Stock, additional series of Preferred Stock. Before any shares of
 
any series are issued, the Board of Directors shall fix and determine, and is hereby expressly empowered to fix and determine, by resolution or resolutions, the distinguishing characteristics and the relative rights, preferences, privileges and immunities of the shares thereof, so far as not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article FOURTH. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Board of Directors may fix and determine:
(a) The designation of such series, the number of shares which shall constitute such series and the par value, if any, of such shares;
(b) The rate of dividend, if any, payable on shares of such series;
(c) Whether the shares of such series shall be cumulative, non- cumulative or partially cumulative as to dividends, and the dates from which any cumulative dividends are to accumulate;
(d) Whether the shares of such series may be redeemed, and, if so, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions on which shares of such series may be redeemed;
(e) The amount payable upon shares of such series in the event of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Company;
(f) The sinking fund provisions, if any, for the redemption of shares of such series;
 
(g) The voting rights, if any, of the shares of such series;
(h) The terms and conditions, if any, on which shares of such series may be converted into shares of capital stock of the Company of any other class or series;
(i) Whether the shares of such series are to be preferred over shares of capital stock of the Company of any other class or series as to dividends, or upon the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation, or winding up of the affairs of the Company, or otherwise; and
(j) Any other characteristics, preferences, limitations, rights, privileges, immunities or terms not inconsistent with the provisions of this Article FOURTH.
(iii) At the time this amendment becomes effective, each share of Common Stock, par value one dollar ($1.00), issued and outstanding at such time shall be, and hereby is, changed and reclassified into 1088.0671 fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock, par value one cent ($0.01) each, as herein authorized. Each outstanding stock certificate of this Company which, immediately prior to the time this amendment becomes effective, represented one or more shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par value, ("Old Certificate") shall thereafter represent the same number of shares of Common Stock $0.01 par value, and this Company shall issue and deliver to each holder of Common Stock of this Company a new stock certificate representing such number of
 
additional shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value, as shall equal the difference between the number of shares represented by such Old Certificate and said number multiplied by 1088.0671 (omitting fractional shares).
FIFTH: The following provisions are for the management of the business and for the conduct of the affairs of the Company and for the further creation, definition, limitation and regulation of the powers of the Company and of its directors and stockholders:
The number of directors of the Company shall be fixed by, or in the manner provided in, the by-laws of the Company. The election of the directors need not be by written ballot unless the by-laws so provide.
The directors of the Company may from time to time adopt, amend or repeal any of the by-laws of the Company, including by-laws adopted by the stockholders, but the stockholders may from time to time specify provisions of the by-laws that may not be amended or repealed by the directors.
The directors of the Company shall have the power without the assent or vote of the stockholders to authorize and to cause to be executed and delivered on behalf of the Company mortgages and liens upon all or any part of the property of the Company.
Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as the by-laws may provide.
In addition to the powers and authorities hereinbefore or by law expressly conferred upon them, the directors of the Company are hereby empowered to exercise all such powers and to do all such acts and
 
things as may be exercised or done by the Company, subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, of this Certificate of Incorporation, and to any by-laws of the Company; provided, however, that no bylaw whether adopted by the stockholders or by the directors of the Company shall invalidate any prior act of the directors which would have been valid if such by-law had not been adopted.
SIXTH: A director of the Company shall not be personally liable to the Company or its shareholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Company or its shareholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived improper personal benefit. If the General Corporation Law of Delaware shall be amended, after approval by the shareholders of this Article, to authorize corporate action further eliminating or limiting the personal liability of directors, then the liability of a director of the Company shall be eliminated or limited to the full extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, as so amended. Any repeal or modification of this Article Sixth by the shareholders of the Company shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Company existing at the time of such repeal or modification.
 
SEVENTH. (i) Rheinbraun A.G., a German corporation, is a substantial stockholder of the Company. Because Rheinbraun A.G. and the Company may engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business and have an interest in the same corporate opportunities, the provisions of this Article are set forth to regulate, define, and guide the rights and duties of the Company and officers and directors of the Company who may be officers, directors, employees or agents of Rheinbraun A.G. with respect to the allocation of such corporate opportunities.
(ii) Rheinbraun A.G. shall have the right (a) to engage in the same or similar activities or lines of business as the Company, (b) to do business with potential or actual customers or suppliers of the Company, and (c) to employ or otherwise engage or solicit for such purpose any officer, employee or director of the Company. Neither Rheinbraun A.G. nor any officers, directors, employees or agents thereof (except as provided in (iii) below) shall be liable to the Company, its stockholders, or any other person for breach of any fiduciary duty or duty of loyalty by reason of any such activities of Rheinbraun A.G. In the event that Rheinbraun A.G. acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both Rheinbraun A.G. and the Company, Rheinbraun A.G. shall not have any duty to communicate or offer such corporate opportunity to the Company and shall not be liable to the Company, its stockholders or any other
 
person for breach of any fiduciary duty or duty of loyalty as a stockholder of the Company by reason of the pursuit or acquisition by Rheinbraun A.G. of such corporate opportunity for itself, the direction of such corporate opportunity to another person, or the omission to communicate information regarding such corporate opportunity to the Company.
(iii) In the event that a director or officer of the Company who is also a director, officer, employee or agent of Rheinbraun A.G. acquires knowledge of a potential transaction or matter that may be a corporate opportunity for both the Company and Rheinbraun A.G., such director or officer (a) shall be deemed to have fully satisfied and fulfilled any fiduciary or other duties of such director or officer to the Company, its stockholders, and any other person with respect to such corporate opportunity, (b) shall not be liable to the Company or its subsidiaries for breach of any fiduciary or other duties, (c) shall be deemed to have acted in good faith and in a manner such person reasonably believes to be in and not opposed to the best interests of the Company, and (d) shall not be deemed to have breached any duty of loyalty or other duty such person may have to the Company or its stockholders or to have derived an improper benefit, if such director or officer acts in a manner consistent with the following policy: a corporate opportunity offered to any person who is a director or officer of the Company and who is also a director, officer, employee or agent
 
of Rheinbraun A.G. shall belong to the Company if such opportunity is expressly offered to such person solely in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the Company; otherwise, such corporate opportunity shall belong to Rheinbraun A.G.
(iv) Any person purchasing or otherwise acquiring any interest in shares of the capital stock of the Company shall be deemed to have notice of and to have consented to the provisions of this Article.
(v) For purposes of this Article only, (a) the term "Company" shall mean the Company and all corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, associations and other entities in which the Company beneficially owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock, voting power, partnership interests or similar voting interests; (b) the term "Rheinbraun A.G." shall mean Rheinbraun A.G., its parent corporation RWE A.G., and all corporations, partnerships, joint ventures, associations and other entities (other than the Company, defined in accordance with clause (a) of this paragraph) in which Rheinbraun A.G. or RWE A.G. beneficially owns (directly or indirectly) 50% or more of the outstanding voting stock, voting power, partnership interests or similar voting interests; and (c) the term "corporate opportunity" shall include, but not be limited to, business opportunities (1) which the Company is financially able to undertake, (2) which are,
 
from their nature, in the line or lines of the Company's business, would be of practical advantage to it, and in which the Company has an interest or a reasonable expectancy, and (3) as to which, by embracing the opportunity, the self-interest of Rheinbraun A.G. or the officer, director, employee or agent, as the case may be, will be brought into conflict with that of the Company.
(vi) Notwithstanding anything in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to the contrary, (a) the foregoing provisions of this Article shall expire on the date that Rheinbraun A.G. ceases to own beneficially Common Stock representing at least 20% of the total voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company and there is not any person who is a director or officer of the Company who is also a director or officer of Rheinbraun A.G.; and (b) in addition to any vote of the stockholders required by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, until the time that Rheinbraun A.G. shall cease to own beneficially Common Stock representing at least 20% of the total voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company, the affirmative vote of the holders of more than 80% of the total voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company shall be required to alter, amend or repeal in a manner adverse to the interests of Rheinbraun A.G., or adopt any provision adverse to the interests of Rheinbraun A.G. and inconsistent with, any provision of this Article. Neither the alteration, amendment
 
or repeal of this Article nor the adoption of any provision of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation inconsistent with this Article shall eliminate or reduce the effect of this Article in respect of any matter occurring, or any cause of action, suit or claim that, but for this Article, would accrue or arise, prior to such alteration, amendment, repeal or adoption.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned President  Chief Executive Officer of the Company formally acknowledges that the facts stated herein are true, and accordingly has set his hand this 26
th
day of February, 1999.
 
 
 
 
 
1. CONSOL Energy Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Corporation"), is authorized to issue two classes of shares known as Common Stock and Preferred Stock.
2. The Board of Directors of the Corporation is authorized by the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation (the "Restated Certificate") to provide for the issuance of the shares of Preferred Stock in series, and by filing a certificate pursuant to the applicable law of the State of Delaware, to establish from time to time the number of shares to be included in each such series, and to fix the designation, powers, preferences, and rights of the shares of each such series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof.
3. The Restated Certificate does not set forth any such designation, powers, preferences, and rights of any shares or series of the Preferred Stock.
4. Attached as Exhibit A and incorporated herein is a copy of the resolution adopted on the 19th day of December, 2003, by the Board of Directors of the Corporation establishing and designating the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares as a series of the Preferred Stock.
5. The number of shares constituting the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares shall be 2,000,000.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware and the Restated Certificate and to be executed in its corporate name on the 19th day of December, 2003.
 
 
EXHIBIT A
RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority expressly vested in the Board of Directors of Consol Energy Inc. (the "Corporation") by Section 4(ii) of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby fixes and determines the voting rights, designations, preferences, qualifications, privileges, limitations, restrictions, options, conversion rights and other special or relative rights of the first series of the Series Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, which shall consist of 2,000,000 shares and shall be designated as Series A Junior Participating Preferred Shares (the "Series A Junior Shares").
Special Terms of the Series A Junior Shares
.
Dividends and Distributions
(a) The rate of dividends payable per share of Series A Junior Shares on the first day of January, April, July and October in each year or such other quarterly payment date as shall be specified by the Board of Directors (each such date being referred to herein as a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or fraction of a share of the Series A Junior Shares, shall be (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to the greater of (i) $1.00 or (ii) subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, 100 times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the aggregate per share amount (payable in cash, based upon the fair market value at the time the non-cash dividend or other distribution is declared or paid as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors) of all non-cash dividends or other distributions other than a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or a subdivision of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (by reclassification or otherwise), declared on the Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Corporation since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first issuance of any share or fraction of a share of the Series A Junior Shares. Dividends on the Series A Junior Shares shall be paid out of funds legally available for such purpose. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after December 22, 2003 (the "Rights Declaration Date"), (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amounts to which holders of Series A Junior Shares were entitled immediately prior to such event under clause (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying each such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the
denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative on outstanding Series A Junior Shares from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next preceding the date of issue of such Series A Junior Shares, unless the date of issue of such shares is prior to the record date for the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in which case dividends on such shares shall begin to accrue from the date of issue of such shares, or unless the date of issue is a Quarterly Dividend Payment Date or is a date after the record date for the determination of holders of series A Junior Shares entitled to receive a quarterly dividends and before such Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, in either of which events such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from such quarterly Dividend Payment Date. Accrued but unpaid dividends shall not bear interest. Dividends paid on the Series A Junior Shares in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.
Section 2. . In addition to any other voting rights required by law, the holders of Series A Junior Shares shall have the following voting rights:
Voting Rights
(a) Subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, each Series A Junior Share shall entitle the holder thereof to 100
votes on all matters submitted to a vote of the shareholder of the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the number of votes per share to which holders of Series A Junior Shares were entitled immediately prior to such event shall be adjusted multiplying such number by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
(b) In the event that dividends upon the Series A Junior Shares shall be in arrears to an amount equal to six full quarterly dividends thereon, the holders of such Series A Junior Shares shall become entitled to the extent hereinafter provided to vote noncumulatively at all elections of directors of the Corporation, and to receive notice of all shareholders' meetings to be held for such purpose. At such meetings, to the extent that directors are being elected, the holders of such Series A Junior Shares voting as a class shall be entitled solely to elect two members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation; and all other directors of the Corporation shall be elected by the other shareholders of the Corporation entitled to vote in the election of directors. Such voting rights of the holders of such Series A Junior Shares shall continue until all accumulated and unpaid dividends thereon shall have been paid or funds sufficient therefor set aside, whereupon all such voting rights of the holders of shares of such series shall cease, subject to being again revived from time to time upon the reoccurrence of the conditions above described as giving rise thereto.
At anytime when such right to elect directors separately as a class shall have so vested, the Corporation may, and upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 15% of the then outstanding total number of shares of all the Series A Junior Shares having the right to elect directors in such circumstances shall, call a special meeting of holders of such Series A Junior Shares for the election of directors. In the case of such a written request, such special meeting shall be held within 90 days after the delivery of such request, and, in either case, at the place and upon the notice provided by law and in the By-laws of the Corporation; provided, that the Corporation shall not be required to call such a special meeting if such request is received less than 120 days before the date fixed for the next ensuing annual or special meeting of shareholders of the Corporation. Upon the mailing of the notice of such special meeting to the holders of such Series A Junior Shares, or, if no such meeting be held, then upon the mailing of the notice of the next annual or special meeting of shareholders for the election of directors, the number of directors of the Corporation shall, ipso facto, be increased to the extent, but only to the extent, necessary to provide sufficient vacancies to enable the holders of such Series A Junior Shares to elect the two directors hereinabove provided for, and all such vacancies shall be filled only by vote of the holders of such Series A Junior Shares as hereinabove provided. Whenever the number of directors of the Corporation shall have been increased, the number as so increased may thereafter be further increased or decreased in such manner as may be permitted by the By-laws and without the vote of the holders of Series A Junior Shares, provided that no such action shall impair the right of the holders of Series A Junior Shares to elect and to be represented by two directors as herein provided.
So long as the holders of Series A Junior Shares are entitled hereunder to voting rights, any vacancy in the Board of Directors caused by the death or resignation of any director elected by the holders of Series A Junior Shares, shall, until the next meeting of shareholders for the election of directors, in each case be filled by the remaining director elected by the holders of Series A Junior Shares having the right to elect directors in such circumstances.
Upon termination of the voting rights of the holders of any series of Series A Junior Shares the terms of office of all persons who shall have been elected directors of the Corporation by vote of the holders of Series A Junior Shares or by a director elected by such holders shall forthwith terminate.
(c) Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation or by law, the holders of Series A Junior Shares and the holders of Common Stock (and the holders of shares of any other series or class entitled to vote thereon) shall vote together as one class on all matters submitted to a vote of shareholders of the Corporation.
Section 3. . Any Series A Junior Shares purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation in any manner whatsoever shall be retired and canceled promptly after the acquisition thereof. All such shares shall upon their cancellation become authorized but unissued Series Preferred Stock and may be reissued
Reacquired Shares
as part of a new series of Series Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors.
Section 4. . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of Series A Junior Shares shall be entitled to receive the greater of (a) $1.00 per share, plus accrued dividends to the date of distribution, whether or not earned or declared, or (b) an amount per share, subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth, equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be distributed per share to holders of Common Stock. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the Rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount to which holders of Series A Junior Shares were entitled immediately prior to such event pursuant to clause (b) of the preceding sentence shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding Up
Section 5. . In case the Corporation shall enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case the Series A Junior Shares shall at the same time be similarly exchanged or changed in an amount per share (subject to the provision for adjustment hereinafter set forth) equal to 100 times the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash and/or any other property (payable in kind), as the case may be, into which or for which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged. In the event the Corporation shall at any time after the rights Declaration Date (i) declare any dividend on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, then in each such case the amount set forth in the preceding sentence with respect to the exchange or change of shares of Series A Junior Shares shall be adjusted by multiplying such amount by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.
Consolidation, Merger, etc
Section 6. . The Series A Junior Shares shall not be redeemable.
No Redemption
Section 7. . The Series A Junior Shares shall rank junior to all other series of the Corporation's Series Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets, unless the terms of any such series shall provide otherwise.
Ranking
Section 8. . Series A Junior Shares may be issued in fractions of a share which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to such holder's fractional shares, to exercise voting rights, receive dividends, participate in distributions and to have the benefit of all other rights of holders of Series A Junior Shares.
Fractional Shares

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the
Place of Meeting
place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Notice of Meeting
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman or in the Chairman's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iii) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
(C) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. . Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 2.12. . In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
Section 3.8. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The
Quorum.
act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
Section 3.10. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required.
Committees of the Board:Executive Committee
.
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Elected Officers
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of
Chairman of the Board
Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the committees of the Board and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
Section 5.1. . The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Stock Certificates and Transfers
Section 5.2. . No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.3. . The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be
indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or
officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as
Contracts
the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments

Exhibit 3.2.1
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the
Place of Meeting
place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Notice of Meeting
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman or in the Chairman's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iii) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
(C) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. . Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Section 2.12. . In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
Section 3.8. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The
Quorum.
act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
Section 3.10. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required.
Committees of the Board:Executive Committee
.
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
(A) Audit Committee. The Audit Committee shall:
(1) assist the Board in its oversight of (i) the integrity of the Corporation's financial statements; (ii) the Corporation's compliance with legal and regulatory requirements; (iii) the Corporation's compliance with debt covenants; (iv) the performance of the Corporation's internal audit function; and (v) the Corporation's risk management policies and related practices;
(2) interact directly with and evaluate the performance of the Corporation's independent auditors, including to determine whether to engage or dismiss the independent auditors and to monitor the independent auditors' qualifications and independence;
(3) prepare the report required by the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission to be included in the Corporation's proxy statement; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Audit Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Audit Committee shall be independent, determined under applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the rules and requirements of the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"). (B)
Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee shall:
(1) establish and periodically review the Corporation's compensation philosophy and the adequacy of compensation plans and programs for directors, executive officers, and other Corporation employees and make recommendations to the Board concerning compensation of directors; 
(2) establish compensation arrangements and incentive goals for executive officers and to administer compensation plans; 
(3) review the performance of the executive officers and award incentive compensation and adjust compensation arrangements as appropriate based upon performance; 
(4) review and monitor management development and succession plans and activities; 
(5) prepare the report on executive compensation for inclusion in the Corporation's annual proxy statement in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and regulations; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressed or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Compensation Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Compensation Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE. 
(C) Finance Committee. The Finance Committee shall: 
(1) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board of Directors regarding the Corporation's short term and long term financial plans, budgets, capital structure and proposed dividend actions (including long term strategic plans, annual financing plans, annual dividend policy, actions on stock splits and repurchases, capital expenditure requirements and the issuance of debt and equity securities), potential mergers, acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures and other equity investments; 
(2) review alternatives and make recommendations to the Board regarding the objectives, the financial, investment and actuarial policies, and the administration and performance of the funded plans sponsored by the Corporation; 
(3) review and make recommendations to the Board regarding the Corporation's credit agreements, short term investment policies, financial risk management programs and major insurance programs; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Finance Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board.
(D)
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee
. The Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall: 
(1) recommend to the Board the structure and operations of the Board; 
(2) identify individuals qualified to serve as members of the Board, and identify and recommend that the Board select the director nominees for the next annual meeting of stockholders and to fill vacancies; 
(3) recommend to the Board the responsibilities of each Board committee, the structure and operation of each Board committee, and the director nominees for assignment to each Board committee; 
(4) oversee the Board's annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees; 
(5) oversee the annual evaluations of the President; 
(6) develop and recommend to the Board for adoption a set of corporate governance guidelines applicable to the Corporation and to periodically review the same; and shall have such other power and purposes, and perform such other duties, as are expressly or fairly implied in, and consistent with, the Charter of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, as approved and adopted from time to time by the Board, or as may be assigned to it from time to time by the Board. Each member of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee shall be independent, as determined under the rules and requirements of the NYSE.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Elected Officers
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of
Chairman of the Board
Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the committees of the Board and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
Section 5.1. . The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates for shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe. The shares of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. The certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Stock Certificates and Transfers
Section 5.2. . No certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.3. . The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be
indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or
officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as
Contracts
the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments

Exhibit 10.95
CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") hereby awards you Deferred Stock Units under the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), conditioned upon your agreement to the terms and conditions described in this Deferred Stock Unit Grant Agreement and the "Terms and Conditions" attached hereto (collectively referred to as the "Grant Agreement"). All of the terms of the Plan are incorporated into this Grant Agreement as if set forth herein. To the extent this Grant Agreement differs in any way from the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. All capitalized words that are not defined in this Grant Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. A copy of the Plan is attached as .
Exhibit 1
 
 
You have sixty (60) days following the date of this letter in which to return a copy of this Grant Agreement to the Company with the Acknowledgment section below properly signed and dated in order to indicate your acceptance of the terms and conditions of your award as set forth above and in the attached Terms and Conditions. If you do not do so within the due date, your award will become null and void.
I hereby acknowledge and accept the terms and conditions of the Deferred Stock Unit award evidenced by this Grant Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that the terms and conditions of this Grant Agreement, and the provisions of the Plan, set forth the entire understanding between the Company and me regarding my entitlement to receive Shares underlying the Deferred Stock Units granted to me through this Grant Agreement and this Grant Agreement supersedes all prior oral and written agreements on that subject.
 
 
Each Deferred Stock Unit granted to you under the Plan will entitle you to, and represents the right to receive, one Share following the vesting date of that unit. The terms and provisions of your award are subject to the provisions of the Plan. A copy of the Plan is available upon request from Human Resources. Other important features of your award may be summarized as follows:
Unless previously vested, all of the Deferred Stock Units granted to you under this Grant Agreement will vest and become nonforfeitable upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
Special Vesting Events:
 
 
 
If you cease to be in the service of the Company as a Director, including but not limited to a termination for Cause, all unvested Deferred Stock Units and any rights to the underlying Shares will be immediately forfeited to the Company upon such cessation for no consideration unless your termination of service occurs due to one of the Special Vesting Events.
Forfeitability:
If your service is terminated for Cause or should you breach the proprietary information covenant set forth below, then not only will your award be cancelled with respect to any unvested Deferred Stock Units, but you will also forfeit all of your right, title and interest in and to any Shares which have vested under your award. The certificates for any vested Shares you hold at the time of such termination or breach must be promptly returned to the Company, and the Company will in addition impose an immediate stop transfer order with respect to those certificates. Accordingly, upon such termination of your service or breach of the proprietary information covenant below, you will cease to have any further right or entitlement to receive or retain the Shares subject to your forfeited award. In addition, to the extent you have sold any of your vested Shares within the six (6)-month period ending with the date of your termination for Cause or your breach of the proprietary information covenant below or at any time thereafter, then you will be required to repay to the Company, within ten (10) days after receipt of written demand from the Company, the cash proceeds you received upon each such sale, provided such demand is made by the Company within one year after the date of that sale.
The Shares paid to you in connection with your Deferred Stock Units will be registered under the Federal securities laws. Subsequent sales of those Shares will be subject to: (i) the terms and conditions set out in the Prospectus, (ii) any market black-out periods the Company may impose from time to time, (iii) the requirements of the Company's insider trading policies and (iv) the applicable securities laws.
Transferability:
Deferred Stock Units and any future right to receive Shares pursuant to Deferred Stock Units may not be assigned, transferred, pledged, hypothecated or disposed of in any way (whether by operation of law or otherwise) and shall not be subject to execution, attachment or similar process. However, any Deferred Stock Units which have vested but have not been paid to you as of the date of your death may be transferred following your death pursuant to the provisions of your will or the laws of inheritance.
You will recognize income for Federal and state income tax purposes and self-employment tax purposes on the date you are paid Shares, and you must satisfy your income and other tax obligations applicable to that income. The amount of your taxable income will be equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of the Shares times the number of Shares to be paid to you on that date.
Federal and State Taxation:
You will not have any stockholder rights, including voting rights and actual dividend rights, with respect to the Shares underlying the Deferred Stock Units granted to you until you become the record holder of the underlying Shares following their actual issuance to you.
Stockholder Rights:
If a regular cash dividend is declared on the Company's Shares at a time when you have Deferred Stock Units, you will be entitled to dividend equivalent payments equal to the cash dividends declared on the Shares. Dividend equivalents are converted into additional Deferred Stock Units based on the following formula, rounded up to the nearest whole share:
Dividend Equivalent Rights:
 
The additional Deferred Stock Units resulting from the above calculation will be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Deferred Stock Units subject to this award.
In the event of any stock split, stock dividend, recapitilization, combination of shares, exchange of shares or other similar change affecting the Company's outstanding common stock as a class without the Company's receipt of consideration, the number and/or class of securities subject to your award will be appropriately adjusted to preclude any dilution or enlargement of your rights under the award.
Other Adjustments:
In the event of a Change in Control, you will be paid the underlying Shares contemporaneous with the closing of the Change in Control transaction regardless of any Payment Date Election made by you (subject to the golden parachute limit). In all other cases, your vested Shares will be delivered to you on the date provided in your Payment Date Election Form, or as soon as administratively feasible thereafter.
Payment Acceleration Upon a Change in Control:
If any accelerated vesting of Deferred Stock Units or accelerated payment of Shares, either alone or together with any other payments or benefits to which you may otherwise become entitled from the Company in connection with the Change in Control would, in the Company's good faith opinion, be deemed to be a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Code (or any successor provision), then, the number of Deferred Stock Units which are to vest or Shares to be paid to you on such an accelerated basis under your award will be reduced to the extent necessary to assure, in the Company's good faith opinion, that no portion of your accelerated award will be considered such a parachute payment. The Company's good faith opinion on this matter will be conclusive and binding upon you and your successors.
The Golden Parachute Limit:
As a further condition to your right and entitlement to receive the Shares of the Company's common stock subject to your award, you hereby agree to abide by the terms and conditions of the following proprietary information covenant:
Proprietary Information Covenant:
You and the Company agree that certain materials, including (without limitation) information, data and other materials relating to customers, development programs, costs, marketing, trading, investment, sales activities, promotion, credit and financial data, manufacturing processes, financing methods, plans or the business and affairs of the Company and its Affiliates, constitute proprietary confidential information and trade secrets. Accordingly, you will not at any time during or after your service with the Company disclose or use for your own benefit or purposes or the benefit or purposes of any other person, firm, partnership, joint venture, association, corporation or other business organization, entity or enterprise other than the Company and any of its Affiliates, any proprietary confidential information or trade secrets, that the foregoing shall not apply to information which is not unique to the Company or any of its Affiliates or which is generally known to the industry or the public other than as a result of your breach of this covenant. You agree that upon termination of your service with the Company for any reason, you will immediately return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company and its Affiliates, except that you may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries. You further agree that you will not retain or use for your own account at any time any trade names, trademark or other proprietary business designation used or owned in connection with the business of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
provided
: The failure of the Company to enforce at any time any provision of this Agreement shall in no way be construed to be a waiver of such provision or of any other provision hereof.
Failure to Enforce Not A Waiver
: The Company may at any time place legends referencing the provisions of this Agreement, and any applicable federal or state securities law restrictions on all certificates, if any, representing the Shares relating to this award.
Legends
: This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflicts of laws provisions thereof.
Governing Law
: This Agreement may be amended or modified at any time by an instrument in writing signed by the parties hereto, or as otherwise provided under the Plan. Notwithstanding, the Company may, in its sole discretion and without your consent, modify or amend the terms and conditions of this award, impose conditions on the timing and effectiveness of the issuance of the Shares, or take any other action it deems necessary or advisable, to cause this award to comply with Section 409A of the Code (or an exception thereto). Notwithstanding, you recognize and acknowledge that Section 409A of the Code may impose upon you certain taxes or interest charges for which you are and shall remain solely responsible.
Amendments
: Any notice, request, instruction or other document given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be addressed and delivered, in the case of the Company, to the Secretary of the Company at the principal office of the Company and, in your case, to your address as shown in the records of the Company or to such other address as may be designated in writing by either party.
Notices
This award is subject to the Plan. The terms and provisions of the Plan as it may be amended from time to time are hereby incorporated herein by reference. In the event of a conflict between any term or provision contained herein and a term or provision of the Plan, the applicable terms and provisions of the Agreement will govern and prevail.
Award Subject to Plan:
: This Agreement and the Plan are: (i) intended to be the final, complete, and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement between you and the Company with regard to the subject matter of this Agreement; (ii) supersede all other prior agreements, communications, and statements, whether written or oral, express or implied, pertaining to that subject matter; and (iii) may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous statements or agreements, oral or written, and may not be explained or supplemented by evidence of consistent additional terms.
Entire Agreement
An updated prospectus summarizing the principle features of that Plan has been prepared and distributed by the Company; additional copies of the updated prospectus are available upon request from the Corporate Secretary at the Company's executive offices at 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241.
Prospectus:
Attachments:
Exhibit 1 Prospectus for the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Thomas F. Hoffman
(412) 831-4060
PITTSBURGH (May 4, 2006)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a two-for-one split of the Company's common stock effected in the form of a stock dividend.
The split will be effected by issuing to common stockholders of record one additional share of common stock for every share of common stock held as of the close of business on the record date of May 15, 2006. The company expects to distribute the additional shares on or about May 31, 2006. Any cash dividends declared by the Board of Directors in the future will be adjusted to reflect the two-for-one split.
The action today reflects the Board's confidence in our ability to grow the company and to continue to increase its value," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "The split will make our stock accessible to a wide variety of investors."
"
The Company currently has approximately 91.6 million shares of common stock outstanding. As a result of the stock split, the number of shares of Company common stock outstanding will increase to approximately 183.2 million. CONSOL Energy Inc., through its subsidiaries, is the largest producer of high-Btu bituminous coal in the United States. CONSOL Energy has 17 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states. In addition, the company is a majority shareholder in one of the largest U.S. producers of coalbed methane, CNX Gas Corporation.
CONSOL Energy Inc. has annual revenues of $3.8 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com


