FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20070507140433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
(e)
Adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Program under the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Plan")
On May 1, 2007, CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") obtained stockholder approval of a new program under the Plan called the Long-Term Incentive Program (the "Program"). The Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") approved, and recommended to the Board that it ratify and approve, the Program and the related form of award agreement effective February 19, 2007, with payment of the awards thereunder contingent upon stockholder approval of the Program's material terms, which occurred on May 1, 2007 at the Company's 2007 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. Copies of the Program and the form of award agreement thereunder will be filed as exhibits to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2007.
The primary purposes of the Program are (i) to provide long-term incentive compensation to key employees of the Company and its affiliates in order to further align their interests with those of the Company's stockholders, (ii) to link executive compensation more closely with the Company's financial performance, and (iii) to protect the Company's legitimate business interests, including its confidential information, customer relationships, and goodwill, through the use of restrictive covenants. The Compensation Committee will determine the number of Units to be awarded to each participant. Upon being selected to participate in the Program, each participant is awarded a certain number of performance share units (including dividend rights, the "Units"). The Units represent a contingent right to receive one share of the Company's common stock, to the extent such Unit is earned and becomes payable pursuant to the terms of the Program.
Fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Units that may be earned by a Participant will be based on the Company's total stockholder return relative to the total stockholder return of each company in a peer group of companies ("Performance Condition One") for the period of January 1, 2007 to December 31, 2009 (the "Performance Period"). The other fifty percent (50%) of the total number of Units that may be earned by a participant will be based on the absolute growth in the Company's earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") (together with Performance Condition One, the "Performance Conditions") for the Performance Period; provided, however, that (other than in the event of a Change in Control (as defined in the Program)), the ability to earn Units and to receive payment thereon is contingent upon achieving threshold performance of the Performance Conditions and otherwise satisfying all other terms and conditions of the Program. In the event of a Change in Control, the Performance Conditions will be deemed to have been achieved at target levels of performance.
After the end of the Performance Period, the Committee will certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Condition and any other material terms of the Program have been achieved. Any Units earned by a participant will be settled and paid in shares of the Company's common stock as soon as practicable following the end of the Performance Period, but in no event later than two and one-half months after the end of the Performance Period (the "Payment Date"). In the event of a Change in Control, the Units may, in the Committee's discretion, be settled in cash and/or securities or other property.
In the event a participant's employment with the Company or any affiliate is terminated (i) on or after the date participant reaches the age of 55 by reason of Early Retirement or Incapacity Retirement (each as defined in the Program), (ii) by reason of Normal Retirement (as defined in the Program), (iii) on account of death or Disability (as defined in the Program), or (iv) by reason of reduction in force prior to the Payment Date or CiC Payment Date (as defined in the Program), the participant (or the participant's estate, as applicable) will be entitled to retain the Units and receive payment to the extent earned and payable pursuant to the provisions of the Program; provided, however, that in the case of a termination on account of Disability, the participant will only be entitled to retain a prorated portion of the Units determined at the end of the Performance Period and based on the number of full months that the participant worked during the Performance Period. In the event a participant's employment with the Company or any affiliate is terminated for any other reason prior to the Payment Date or the CiC Payment Date, the Units
awarded to the participant will be cancelled and forfeited, whether or not payable, without payment by the Company or any affiliate.
Participants in the Program have also agreed to two-year noncompetition and nonsolicitation covenants as well as confidentiality provisions set forth in the Program document.
The Committee granted and approved, and upon the Committee's recommendation, the Board ratified, the following grants of Unit awards to the Company's "named executive officers" (those executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Company's most recently filed proxy statement): (i) J. Brett Harvey, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and a director on the Company's Board, an award of 45,624 Units, (ii) William J. Lyons, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, an award of 9,393 Units, and (iii) Peter B. Lilly, the Company's PresidentCoal Group, an award of 12,946 Units. Each of the Unit awards is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Program and the related award agreement.
Unit Awards under the Program.
Time Sharing Agreement between CONSOL Energy Inc. and J. Brett Harvey
On May 1, 2007, the Company entered into a Time Sharing Agreement (the "Agreement") with Mr. Harvey. The Agreement provides that the Company will, from time to time, lease its Gulfstream Aerospace G-II59 aircraft (the "Aircraft") to Mr. Harvey with a flight crew for the operation thereof, as and when required by Mr. Harvey, so long as the Aircraft is not otherwise employed on behalf of the Company. Mr. Harvey's use of the Aircraft will constitute a non-exclusive lease and the Agreement will only be applicable in instances in which the Company seeks partial reimbursement of Aircraft-related costs. Pursuant to the Agreement, Mr. Harvey has agreed that the rates to be charged for any particular flight (round-trip between Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and Toronto, Canada) will be $1,500 unless otherwise modified by the Chairman of the Compensation Committee in compliance with the Agreement and applicable law. The Company has the right to charge Mr. Harvey on a flight-by-flight basis up to an amount which equals: (i) fuel, oil, lubricants, and other additives; (ii) travel expenses of the crew; (iii) hangar and tie-down costs away from the Aircraft's base of operation; (iv) insurance obtained for the specific flight; (v) landing fees, airport taxes, and similar assessments; (vi) customs, foreign permit, and similar fees directly related to the flight, if applicable; (vii) in-flight food and beverages; (viii) passenger ground transportation; (ix) flight planning and weather contract services; and (x) an additional charge equal to 100% of the expenses listed in (i) above.
The Company is also obligated to provide and maintain Aircraft third party aviation legal liability insurance under the Agreement, naming Mr. Harvey as an additional insured and to indemnify and agree to hold Mr. Harvey harmless from and against any and all liabilities, claims, demands, suits, judgments, damages, losses, costs and expenses (including reasonable legal expenses and attorneys' fees) arising in connection with the Aircraft. The Company and Mr. Harvey will both have the right to terminate the Agreement with immediate effect upon written notice to the other party and the Agreement will automatically terminate upon the cessation of Mr. Harvey's employment with the Company.
The description is qualified in its entirety by the Agreement. A copy of the Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein for reference.
 
On May 1, 2007 the Board adopted the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Third Amended and Restated Bylaws"), effective immediately upon their adoption, to supersede and replace the existing bylaws of the Company. Sections 5.1 and 5.2 of the bylaws were amended to permit the Company to issue uncertificated shares of Company common stock which was not expressly provided for prior to the amendments.
(a)
The description is qualified in its entirety by the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws. A copy of the Third Amended and Restated Bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2 hereto and a copy marked to show changes to the former bylaws is included as Exhibit 3.2.1 hereto.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 7, 2007
 

Exhibit 3.2
Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with
Notice of Meeting
 
postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman or in the Chairman's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder
 
proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iii) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
(C) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in
 
this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. . Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
Section 2.12. . In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent
 
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
 
Section 3.8. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum.
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
Section 3.10. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required.
Committees of the Board: Executive Committee
.
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to
Elected Officers
 
time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
 
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the committees of the Board and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
Section 5.1. .
Stock Certificates and Transfers
(A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by shares of stock which may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law, and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation
 
and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe.
(B) Shares of the stock of the Corporation evidenced by certificate shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Shares of the stock of the Corporation which are uncertificated shall, upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto. It shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporation's books.
(C) Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall contain such information as required under Delaware law.
(D) Any certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 5.2. . With respect to any certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, upon production of evidence of loss, destruction or theft of a certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation, and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require, the Corporation may issue (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the Corporation.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.3. . The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
 
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote
 
of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of
 
this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Contracts
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
 
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments
 

Exhibit 3.2.1
Incorporated under the Laws of the State of Delaware
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board or the Chairman, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with
Notice of Meeting
 
postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman or in the Chairman's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A) . (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw.
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), and Rule 14a-11 thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); (b) as to any other business that the stockholder
 
proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner and (ii) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iii) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
(C) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in
 
this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. . Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
Section 2.12. . In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent
 
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
 
Section 3.8. Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum.
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
Section 3.10. The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board when required.
Committees of the Board: Executive Committee
.
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board shall have power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to
Elected Officers
 
time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board or any committee of the Board assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
 
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the committees of the Board and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
Section 5.1. .
Stock Certificates and Transfers
The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe.
(A)
certificates for
which may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law, and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be
The shares
 
of the stock of the Corporation shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require.
(B) Shares
evidenced by certificate
by the holder thereof in person or by his or her attorney,
The
Shares of the stock of the Corporation which are uncertificated shall, upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto. It shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporation's books.
(C) Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall contain such information as required under Delaware law.
certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
(D) Any
Section 5.2. . certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, production of evidence of loss, destruction or theft delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
No
With respect to any
shall be issued in place of any certificate
except on
upon
such
such
and on
of a certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation, and upon
, the Corporation may issue (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the Corporation
Section 5.3. . The Board may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
 
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a
 
determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this Bylaw shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
 
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Contracts
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
 
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments
 

Exhibit 10.1
This TIME SHARING AGREEMENT ("Agreement"), dated as of this 1
st
day of May 2007, is by and between CONSOL Energy Inc. with its principal address at Consol Plaza, 1800 Washington Road, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15241 ("Owner") and J. Brett Harvey ("Lessee").
WHEREAS, Owner owns a Gulfstream Aerospace GII59 aircraft bearing U.S. Registration No. N154C and Manufacturer's Serial No. 253 (the "Aircraft");
WHEREAS, Lessee desires to lease the Aircraft from Owner and Owner is willing to lease the Aircraft to Lessee;
WHEREAS, Owner and Lessee have agreed on the lease of the Aircraft under a time sharing arrangement the terms and conditions of which are set forth herein;
WHEREAS, this Agreement is entered into in recognition of and in compliance with the applicable provisions of U.S. Code of Federal Regulations 14 C.F.R. 91.501(c)(1).
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
1.1 . Subject to the terms and conditions herein, Owner shall lease the Aircraft to Lessee from time to time with a flight crew for the operation thereof, as and when required by Lessee so long as the Aircraft is not otherwise employed on behalf of Owner. Lessee's use of the Aircraft shall constitute a non-exclusive lease. This Agreement shall be applicable only in instances in which Owner seeks partial reimbursement of Aircraft-related costs.
Lease of Aircraft
1.2 . The lease of the Aircraft under the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall become effective upon the date and time the Aircraft is delivered to Lessee and the Aircraft shall upon delivery, without further deed of lease or transfer, pass under and become subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement. Such lease shall terminate in accordance with Section 8 of this Agreement.
Term
2.1 . As consideration for the lease of the Aircraft, Lessee shall pay one or more of the following charges to Owner on a flight-by-flight basis following the completion of each flight with the Aircraft:
Fees and Charges
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Owner has determined and Lessee acknowledges that the rates to be charged for any particular flight (round-trip) shall be those set forth on Appendix A attached hereto; provided, however, that the Chair of the Compensation Committee of the Owner's Board of Directors may, from time to time, modify Appendix A (including but not limited to the rates set forth therein) upon reasonable advance notice to Lessee regarding the same. Under no circumstances shall the compensation paid by the Lessee to the Owner under this agreement exceed the amounts permissible under 14 C.F.R. 91.501(d).
2.2 . Within thirty (30) business days following the completion of each flight of the Aircraft on behalf of Lessee, Owner shall invoice Lessee for the charges specified in Section 2.1. Lessee shall pay the amount stated in the invoice within ten (10) business days following its receipt.
Invoice and Payment
2.3 . The payment of any compensation in connection with the flights conducted on behalf of Lessee under this agreement is subject to federal transportation excise tax as provided under 29 U.S.C. 4261. Owner shall be responsible for the payment of any and all federal transportation excise taxes in connection with this Agreement. All other federal, state, or local taxes, duties or assessments imposed on the charges specified in Section 2.1 shall be the responsibility of Lessee.
Taxes
3.1 . Lessee shall request use of the Aircraft by giving reasonable notice to Owner prior to the requested departure time. Owner shall have final and exclusive authority over the scheduling of the Aircraft.
Scheduling of Aircraft
3.2 . Delivery and redelivery of the Aircraft by one party to the other party shall ordinarily be made at Allegheny County Airport, in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania; provided, however, that delivery and/or redelivery of the Aircraft may be made at such other airport as shall be agreed upon by the parties.
Delivery and Redelivery of Aircraft
4.1 . Owner shall provide a complete flight crew for the operation of the Aircraft during the lease of the Aircraft to Lessee under this Agreement. Each member of such flight crew shall be duly licensed and qualified to operate the Aircraft in accordance with the regulations and requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration ("FAA").
Flight Crews
4.2 . Owner shall at all times have operational control over all flights performed under this Agreement and shall be solely responsible for compliance with all applicable FAA regulations. The Lessee shall have the right to determine the schedules and destination of a flight while the Aircraft is being operated on behalf of Lessee, provided however that the pilot-in-command shall have sole authority to determine whether a flight may be safely operated and to initiate and terminate flights. Lessee undertakes to accept all decisions of the pilot-in-command regarding the operation of the Aircraft.
Operational Control
4.3 . Owner shall operate the Aircraft in a safe and reasonable manner and at all times in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including, without limitation, the rules and regulations of the FAA.
Operation of Aircraft
 
5.1 . During the term of this Agreement, Owner shall service and repair the Aircraft so as to:
Aircraft Maintenance
 
 
 
 
5.2 . All maintenance and inspections of the Aircraft shall have priority in scheduling the operation of the Aircraft on behalf of Lessee, unless such maintenance and inspections may be deferred in accordance with applicable FAA regulations and recommended manufacturer maintenance procedures.
Maintenance Scheduling
6.1 . Owner represents and warrants to Lessee as follows:
Owner Representations and Warranties
 
 
6.2 . Lessee represents and warrants to Owner as follows:
Lessee Representations and Warranties
 
 
7.1 . Owner shall provide and maintain Aircraft third party aviation legal liability insurance in an amount not less than $100 million of primary insurance. Such insurance shall include the following provisions:
Insurance
 
 
 
7.2 . Owner hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Lessee harmless from and against any and all liabilities, claims, demands, suits, judgments, damages, losses, costs and expenses (including reasonable legal expenses and attorneys' fees) for or on account of or in any way connected with injury to or death of any persons whomsoever or loss of or damage to property arising out of (i) the use or operation of the Aircraft under this Agreement or in any way connected with this Agreement including but not limited to the Aircraft and related
Indemnification
 
equipment or (ii) the performance or nonperformance by Owner of its responsibilities under this Agreement, unless such loss or damage results from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of Lessee.
8.1 . Owner and Lessee shall have the right to terminate this Agreement with immediate effect upon written notice to the other party. This Agreement shall automatically terminate upon the cessation of Lessee's employment by Owner. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any provisions directly or indirectly related to Lessee's payment obligations shall survive the termination of the Agreement
Termination
9.1 . This Agreement shall be construed and performance hereof shall be determined in accordance with laws of the State of Pennsylvania (excluding conflict of laws principles).
Governing Law
9.2 . If any provision of this Agreement becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any law, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired.
Severability
9.3 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each such counterpart constituting an original hereof.
Counterparts
10.1 . THE AIRCRAFT SUBJECT TO THIS TIME SHARING AGREEMENT HAS BEEN MAINTAINED AND INSPECTED IN ACCORDANCE WITH PART 91 OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS DURING THE TWELVE (12) MONTHS PRECEDING THE EFFECTIVE DATE HEREOF AND THE PARTIES HERETO CERTIFY THAT FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE OPERATION TO BE CONDUCTED PURSUANT TO THIS AGREEMENT THE AIRCRAFT IS IN FULL COMPLIANCE WITH THE APPLICABLE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION REQUIREMENTS OF SAID PART 91. THE NAME AND ADDRESS OF THE PARTY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE OPERATIONAL CONTROL OF THE AIRCRAFT FOR THE TERM OF THIS AGREEMENT IS CONSOL ENERGY INC., 1800 WASHINGTON ROAD, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA 15241 AND SAID PARTY HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT IT UNDERSTANDS ITS RESPONSIBILITY TO COMPLY WITH APPLICABLE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS. AN EXPLANATION OF THE FACTORS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FEDERAL AVIATION ADMINISTRATION FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE.
Truth-in-Leasing
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the 1
st
day of May 2007.
 
 
 
 


