FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20070125091417.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The following information is furnished pursuant to Item 2.02, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition."
CONSOL Energy Inc. issued a press release on January 25, 2007 announcing its year end results. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Exhibit 99.1    Press release of CONSOL Energy Inc. dated January 25, 2007.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: January 25, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contacts: Thomas F. Hoffman at (412) 831-4060
                 or
                 Charles E. Mazur, Jr. at (412) 831-4340
PITTSBURGH (January 25, 2007)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE:CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and coalbed methane company, reported earnings of $127.9 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, for its fourth quarter ended December 31, 2006, compared with $87.6 million, or $0.47 per diluted share for the same period a year earlier. The company reported earnings of $408.9 million, or $2.20 per diluted share for the calendar year ended December 31, 2006 compared with $580.9 million, or $3.13 per diluted share for calendar year 2005. The calendar year 2005 results included a gain of $323.0 million, or $1.74 per diluted share, related to the sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas. Net cash from operating activities was $225.3 million for the quarter just ended, compared with $218.7 million for the December 2005 quarter.
FINANCIAL RESULTS  Period-To-Period Comparison
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates. Other investing cash flows represents net cash used in or (provided by) investing activities less capital expenditures and includes: Additions to Mineral Leases; Investment in Equity Affiliates; Acquisitions and Proceeds from Sales of Assets. Proceeds of $420.2 million from the sale of 18.5% of CNX Gas are included in the twelve months ended December 31, 2005 other investing cash flows.
"The fourth quarter was a solid quarter for us," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer, "particularly in light of the impact the mild weather has had on coal inventories at power plants." Harvey said results reflected customer demand for high-Btu products, the company's reliance on term rather than spot coal sales, and the diversification of company sources of revenue.
"The demand for the high-Btu, Northern Appalachian coal held up much better than demand from other production basins," Harvey explained. "As a result, Northern Appalachian pricing held up better than other areas. In addition, we had very little exposure during the quarter just ended to the spot market, where pricing recently has been much weaker than the term market."
Harvey said results also were aided by the company's diverse stream of revenues. "What our results show is that our diversification into segments of the energy supply sector beyond coal allows us to manage short-term challenges more easily."
He pointed to CONSOL Energy's strategic acquisition of Mon River Towing and J.A.R. Barge Lines in 2006 as an example of the company's diversification into the transportation portion of the energy supply chain. "Our transportation group is now making a meaningful financial contribution. Coupled with the continued growth of CNX Gas, our gas production subsidiary in which we own 81.5 percent, we are beginning to reduce volatility in our revenue stream."
Harvey said the company had a number of other significant accomplishments during the year. "We were especially pleased with the signing of four long-term sales agreements with customers with scrubbed power plants for more than 230 million tons of Northern Appalachian high-Btu coal with an initial value of more than $10 billion." During 2006, CONSOL Energy signed multi-year, multi-million ton sales agreements with American Electric Power, Duke Power, FirstEnergy and PPL. He added that the Robinson Run preparation plant expansion was completed during the year. A slope and overland belt at that facility is expected to be completed this year, increasing production capacity by approximately 20 percent. In addition, three underground mines, Enlow Fork, McElroy and Bailey, produced more than 10 million tons during the year.
"We also executed a two-for-one stock split, received upgrades from both Moody's and Standard & Poor's, and were added to the S&P 500 index," Harvey concluded.
Period-to-Period Analysis of Financial Results for the Quarter
Total revenue and other income decreased 1.6 percent, due to the elimination of reporting gross revenues related to purchased gas, offset, in part, by higher realized prices for coal and gas, higher gas volumes sold, and increased river transportation revenue.
Net cash from operating activities was $225.3 million for the quarter just ended, compared with $218.7 million for the December 2005 quarter, an increase of approximately 3.0 percent. The improvement in net cash from operating activities reflects changes in working capital.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, depletion and amortization (EBITDA) was $198.1 million for the fourth quarter 2006 versus $190.6 million for the same period a year ago.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2006, the company recognized $19.4 million of insurance proceeds related to the Buchanan Mine skip hoist incident that occurred in September 2005. During the 2005 quarter, the company recognized $17.8 million related to the Buchanan Mine fire that occurred in February 2005.
Total costs decreased 1.5 percent due to lower purchased gas cost of goods sold.
Cost of goods sold (including Purchased Gas and Gas Royalty Interests' Costs) decreased 7.1 percent, primarily reflecting the elimination of reporting gross costs related to purchased gas, partially offset by higher closed and idle mine costs related to the idling of the Mahoning Valley, Shoemaker, VP #8 and Wiley-Mill Creek mines.
Depreciation, depletion and amortization increased 14.1 percent, primarily reflecting various coal assets and other projects placed in service after the 2005 period.
Taxes other than income decreased 2.0 percent, primarily due to lower production related taxes.
As of December 31, 2006, CONSOL Energy, excluding CNX Gas Corporation's liquidity, had no short-term debt and had $580 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $117 million of cash, an available accounts receivable securitization facility of $106 million and $357 million available to be borrowed under its $750 million bank facility. As of December 31, 2006, CNX Gas Corporation had no short-term debt and had $290 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $107 million of cash and $183 million available to be borrowed under its $200 million bank facility.
 
Coal Operations
 
Sales and production includes CONSOL Energy's portion from variable interest entities. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project accruals, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premium), royalties, production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. Operating Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Operating Costs Per Ton. Financial Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Total Costs Per Ton  Company Produced. *Includes 1.3 million tons of metallurgical grade coal. ** Amounts may not add due to rounding.
Coal segment performance for the quarter-to-quarter comparison was driven by higher realized prices and was offset by higher costs per ton. Total costs per ton increased due to the lower production during the quarter (against which to charge fixed costs) as a result of difficult geological conditions at several mines as well as higher costs related to regulatory requirements for safety and subsidence.
In the quarter-to-quarter comparison, company-produced coal production declined 1.8 million tons. Approximately 75 percent of the decline was due to the previously announced idling of Shoemaker Mine in West Virginia, the idling of VP 8 Mine in Virginia, and the shutdown of the Mahoning Valley Mine in Ohio. The remainder of the period-to-period production decline was due to adverse geological conditions at several mines resulting in falls on major beltlines as well as sandstone and rock intrusions in the areas being mined.
However, sales of company-produced coal declined only 0.2 million tons, period-to-period, as the company reduced inventories at several mines. Average realized prices increased $2.42, or 6.7 percent, reflecting higher pricing for coal.
"During the quarter we reduced inventory at the mines significantly," Harvey said. "Sales of company produced coal were up nearly 2 million tons in the fourth quarter compared with the trailing quarter. Although financial margins were not as strong as they were in the same quarter a year earlier, they improved by more than 40 percent over the trailing quarter."
 
Total costs per ton for company-produced coal were up $3.51, or 11.7 percent, period-to-period. The increase in costs per ton were primarily attributable to 10.2 percent lower production versus last year, and to a lesser extent, higher subsidence costs, higher health and retirement benefit costs, and increased depreciation, depletion and amortization (DD&A) charges.
Operating margins (average realized price per ton less operating costs per ton) for CONSOL Energy's coal operations were $12.98 per ton, or 9.7 percent lower period-to-period, because of lower production and higher operating costs, offset, in part, by average coal prices period-to-period that were $2.42 per ton higher. Financial margins (average realized price less total costs) were $5.24 per ton, a decrease of 17.2 percent period-to-period, reflecting lower production and higher operating costs.
Gas Operations
CNX Gas Corporation (NYSE:CXG), 81.5 percent of which is owned by CONSOL Energy, reported net income to CONSOL Energy of $31.2 million for the quarter ended December 31, 2006. CNX Gas Corporation issued its earnings release on January 24, 2007.
Additional information regarding CNX Gas Corporation financial and operating results for the quarter are available in their release and can be found in the investor section of their website:
http://www.cnxgas.com
Outlook
In the tables below, the company provides certain financial and production guidance measures. These measures are based on the company's current estimates and are subject to change based on changing circumstances and on risks associated with the business that are described at the end of this news release.
 
 
NA = Not Available
2007 COAL CAPEX (forecast)
 
2007 Quarterly Production Guidance
 
Current demand for coal has been impacted by relatively moderate temperatures during the current heating season in most parts of the country. However, contract pricing for Northern Appalachian coal has been resilient particularly when compared with other basins. The production discipline in the Eastern United States has been a factor in the resiliency of pricing. Preliminary year-end data from the Energy Information Agency (EIA) shows that coal production east of the Mississippi River was 3.0 percent lower than 2005. The EIA estimates that coal production east of the Mississippi River will be curtailed by an additional 15 million tons in 2007.
As of January 11, 2007, the company has approximately 93% of its expected production for 2007 under contract at an average realized price of $40.11.
Average realized pricing increases sequentially each year from 2008 through 2010. This pricing underscores the strength of demand for high-Btu Northern Appalachian coal to fuel the growing number of power plants that are retrofitted with sulfur removal systems.
"Our advantageous geographical location, our large long-lived coal reserves, and our river transportation assets all create a competitive advantage for us with customers seeking fuel supply reliability and security," Harvey explained. "Based on public announcements by power generators, an additional 71 gigawatts of coal-fired power generation east of the Mississippi River will be retrofitted with scrubbers by 2010. This equates to 170 million tons of new market opportunity for high-Btu, high-sulfur coal."
Impact of Union Contract Settlement and Legislation
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association, which represents several CONSOL Energy subsidiary companies, reached agreement with the United Mine Workers of America (UMWA) on a successor to the National Bituminous Coal Wage Agreement of 2002. The agreement affects approximately 2,800 CONSOL Energy subsidiary employees, and approximately 50 percent of CONSOL Energy's current coal production capacity.
For 2007, the contract provisions will add approximately $0.60 to $0.65 per ton compared with 2006 unit costs. Approximately $0.30 per ton of this cost is related to payments into several benefit funds. However, the company anticipates that, over the life of the
 
contract (2007  2011), the additional scheduling flexibility allowed under the new labor agreement should result in efficiency gains at the company's large, underground longwall mining complexes in Northern Appalachia that should ameliorate cost increases arising under the new labor contract.
The Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act Amendments of 2006 became law in December 2006. These amendments had several impacts on CONSOL Energy, including: the reduction over time in the production tax paid to fund the reclamation of abandoned mining sites; and the assumption by the federal government by 2011 of responsibility for so-called "orphan miners" who receive retirement benefits from several multi-employer funds into which CONSOL Energy contributes. The term "orphan" derives from the fact that the previous employer of those retirees is out of business and, therefore, does not contribute to the Funds. This change in the law will limit, by 2011, CONSOL Energy's responsibility for UMWA-represented retirees only to those who worked for CONSOL Energy companies.
Contracted Position, Capital Expenditures and Production Discipline
"As we enter 2007, we have more than 90% of our expected coal production priced and committed at an average price above $40 per ton," Harvey noted. "This is no small feat considering the moderate weather our key coal market areas have experienced, but weather issues are short term factors." He said fuel buyers have assigned additional value to fuel supply agreements that provide long-term security, reliability and flexibility of supply.
"Nevertheless, we will continue to exercise discipline in our capital spending, particularly during the first half of 2007 as we see how the coal markets unfold this year," Harvey asserted. "We expect coal CAPEX to be approximately $360 million for 2007, about $130 million, or 26 percent, below last year's budget."
Harvey said the company projected modest growth in production over the period 2007 through 2010. "We expect to increase production by about two million tons for 2007, but to stick with our previously stated principle of not adding significant additional production capacity unless the market has already signaled the need through executed sales agreements. Capital expenditure and production discipline have been keys to our success in 2006 and we will continue to take this measured approach to expansion projects."
Shares Repurchased
The company did not repurchase shares during the period just ended. For 2006, the company repurchased a total of 3.5 million shares at an average price of $33.11 per share. The company repurchases shares from time to time under a $300 million authorization from the Board of Directors for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2007.
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 equity index, has annual revenues of $3.7 billion. The company was named one of America's most admired companies in 2005 by Fortune magazine. It received the U.S. Department of the Interior's Office of Surface Mining National Award for Excellence in Surface Mining for the company's innovative reclamation practices in 2002 and 2003. Also in 2003, the company was listed in magazine's "Information Week 500" list for its information technology operations. In 2002, the company received a U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Climate Protection Award. Additional information about the company can be found at its web site: .
Information Week
www.consolenergy.com
EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
Definition:
 
For purposes of this press release, references to "CONSOL Energy," the "Company," "we," "our," or "us" or similar words (other than the legal names of companies) shall include CONSOL Energy Inc. and its respective subsidiaries.
 
Various statements in this document, including those that express a belief, expectation, or intention, as well as those that are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects and our future production, revenues, income and capital spending. When we use the words "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "anticipate," "could," "would," "will," "estimate," "plan," "predict," "project," or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements unless required by securities law, and we caution you not to rely on them unduly. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
We are including this cautionary statement in this document to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf, of us.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INCOME STATEMENT BY SEGMENT
4th Quarter 2006
In Millions
 
INCOME STATEMENT BY SEGMENT
December 2006 YTD
In Millions
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc.
Financial and Operating Statistics
 
 
 


