FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20080225163434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
(1)
Adoption of the Long-Term Incentive Program (2008-2010) under the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (as amended, the "Plan")
On February 19, 2008, the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") approved the Long-Term Incentive Program (2008-2010) (the "2008 LTIP"). The primary purposes of the 2008 LTIP are: (i) to provide long-term incentive compensation to key employees, in the form of performance share units, to further align such persons' interests with those of the Company's stockholders; and (ii) to protect the Company's legitimate business interests, including its confidential information, customer relationships, and goodwill, through the use of restrictive covenants.
The Compensation Committee will, among other matters, have full authority and discretion to determine program eligibility, make awards under the program, establish the terms and conditions of such awards and determine whether the performance goals have been achieved for the performance period of January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2010 (the "LTIP Performance Period").
Upon being selected to participate in the 2008 LTIP, each participant is awarded a certain number of performance share units (including dividend rights, the "Units"). The Units represent a contingent right to receive one share of the Company's common stock, to the extent such Unit is earned and becomes payable pursuant to the terms of the 2008 LTIP.
The Units will be earned (at a specific level) if any one or more of the following performance goals are achieved: (i) total shareholder return relative to the Company's peers equals or is greater than the fiftieth (50th) percentile as compared to the Company's peers at the end of the LTIP Performance Period; (ii) cumulative earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") for fiscal years 2008 through 2010 equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the Board-approved long-range plan relative to EBITDA; or (iii) cumulative net income for fiscal years 2008 through 2010 equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the Board-approved long range plan relative to net income.
After the end of the LTIP Performance Period, the Compensation Committee will determine in writing the extent to which the applicable performance goal(s) and any other material terms of the 2008 LTIP awards have been achieved. Any Units earned by a participant will be settled and paid in shares of the Company's common stock in calendar year 2011 on a date determined in the Compensation Committee's discretion, but in no event later than March 15th of such year. In the event of a "change in control," as defined in the 2008 LTIP, the performance goal(s) will be deemed to have been achieved (at a target award level of fifty percent (50%) of Units awarded) and the value of such Units will be settled on the closing date of the change in control transaction, in cash and/or securities or other property.
Under the terms of the 2008 LTIP, the Compensation Committee may, in its sole discretion, use negative discretion to reduce the number of Units that would otherwise be earned by a participant upon the attainment of any of the performance goals, if it concludes that such reduction is necessary or appropriate in accordance with guidelines established by the Compensation Committee. In exercising its negative discretion, the Compensation Committee may consider, among other factors, total shareholder return and EBITDA performance.
In the event a participant's employment with the Company or any affiliate is terminated: (i) on or after a participant has completed at least one year of continuous service with the Company after January 1, 2008 and the participant has reached the age of 55 years by reason of Early Retirement (as defined in the CONSOL Energy Inc. Employee Retirement Plan, as amended, or any successor plan thereto (the "ERP")), (ii) on or after the participant has reached the age of 55 years by reason of an "Incapacity Retirement" (as defined in the ERP), (iii) by reason of Normal Retirement (as defined in the ERP) and the participant has reached the age of 62 years, (iv) on account of death or Disability (as defined in the Plan), or (v) by reason of a reduction in force prior to the payment date or payment date triggered by a change in control, the participant (or the participant's estate, as applicable) will be entitled to retain the Units and receive payment to the extent earned and payable pursuant to the provisions of the award; provided, however, that in the case of a termination on account of
Disability, the participant will only be entitled to retain a prorated portion of the Units determined at the end of the performance period and based on the number of full months that the participant worked during the LTIP Performance Period (or the number of remaining months in the LTIP Performance Period if the participant is admitted after the start of the LTIP Performance Period). In the event a participant's employment with the Company or any affiliate is terminated for any other reason prior to the payment date or the payment date triggered by a change in control, the Units awarded to the participant will be cancelled and forfeited, whether or not payable, without payment by the Company or any affiliate.
. The Compensation Committee granted and approved the following awards to the Company's "named executive officers" (those executive officers for whom disclosure was required in the Company's most recently filed proxy statement, pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K): (i) J. Brett Harvey, the Company's President and Chief Executive Officer and a director on the Board, an award of 52,554 (such award was ratified by the independent members of the Board); (ii) William J. Lyons, the Company's Chief Financial Officer, an award of 10,172 Units; and (iii) Peter B. Lilly, the Company's President  Coal Group, an award of 13,562 Units. Each of the awards is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2008 LTIP, the Plan and the related award agreement.
Unit Awards under the 2008 LTIP
(2) Adoption of the Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan under the Plan
On February 19, 2008, the Compensation Committee approved the 2008 STIC Plan (the "2008 STIC Plan"). The 2008 STIC Plan will be used to provide annual incentive-based cash compensation opportunities to the Company's executive officers and other key employees with significant responsibility for achieving performance goals critical to our success and growth. The 2008 STIC Plan is designed to: (i) promote the attainment of the Company's significant business objectives; (ii) encourage and reward management teamwork across the entire Company; and (iii) assist in the attraction and retention of employees vital to the Company's long-term success.
The Compensation Committee will, among other things, have full authority and discretion to determine plan eligibility, make awards under the plan, establish the terms and conditions of such awards and determine whether the requisite performance goals have been achieved for the performance period of January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 (the "STIC Performance Period").
The maximum annual cash award which may be earned by any participant under the 2008 STIC Plan is $2,000,000. An award may be earned if any one or more of the following performance goals is achieved: (i) total shareholder return relative to the Company's peers equals or is greater than the fiftieth (50th) percentile as compared to the peers for fiscal year 2008; (ii) EBITDA for fiscal year 2008 equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the Board-approved annual business plan relative to EBITDA; and (iii) net income for fiscal year 2008 equals or exceeds fifty percent (50%) of the Board-approved annual business plan relative to net income.
After the end of the STIC Performance Period, the Compensation Committee will determine the extent to which the performance goal(s) and any other material terms of the awards have been achieved. If any of the performance goals is achieved, the Compensation Committee will determine award amounts by using the following formula:
 
Under the terms of the 2008 STIC Plan, the Compensation Committee may also, in its sole discretion, exercise negative discretion to reduce the cash award that would otherwise be earned by a participant upon the attainment of any of the performance goals, if it concludes that such reduction is necessary or appropriate in accordance with guidelines established by the Compensation Committee. In exercising its negative discretion, the Compensation Committee may consider factors such as Company performance and individual objectives. Earned awards will be paid in the first calendar year immediately following the end of the performance period on or before March 15th of the calendar year.
Except as otherwise provided, participants who have terminated employment with the Company prior to the actual payment of an award will forfeit any and all rights to payment under any awards then outstanding under the terms of the plan and will not be entitled to any cash payment for such period.
. The Compensation Committee granted and approved the following awards to the Company's named executive officers:
Awards under the 2008 STIC Plan
 
Each of the awards is subject to the terms and conditions of the 2008 STIC Plan, the Plan and the related award agreement.
 
On February 19, 2008, the Company amended its Code of Employee Business Conduct and Ethics (the "Code"). The Code, as amended, provides that occasional, nominal personal use of the Company's assets (excluding the Company's intellectual and proprietary information, software applications, product plans, documentation of business systems and other business data) will be permissible and that the Company may, in its discretion, request reimbursement for the direct costs associated with such use. The Code, as amended, also provides that waivers or exceptions to the Code must conform with applicable law and regulation and be approved by the Chief Financial Officer or the General Counsel, or, in the case of executive officers, by the Board and that exceptions or waivers will be granted only after full disclosure of all material facts and, in the case of executive officers, will be promptly disclosed to the extent required by law or regulation. A copy of the amended Code is available on the Company's corporate website at www.consolenergy.com.
(a)
The above description is a summary of the refinements made to the Code and is qualified in its entirety by the copy thereof which is attached hereto as Exhibit 14.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Exhibits
(d)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 25, 2008
 

Exhibit 14.1
 
 
INTRODUCTION
It always has been and continues to be the intent of CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL") and its subsidiary companies (together with CONSOL, the "Company") that all who conduct business on behalf of the Company maintain the highest ethical and legal standards in conducting such business. The essence of this Code of Business Conduct (the "Code"), which has been adopted by CONSOL and each of its subsidiaries, is that each employee will conduct all Company business with integrity, in compliance with applicable laws, and in a manner that excludes considerations of personal advantage.
This Code applies to all executives and other officers, employees, consultants, independent contractors and agents (collectively, "employees") of the Company (including, specifically, CONSOL's principal executive officer and its principal financial officer). Only the Board of Directors or an authorized Committee of the Board may grant waivers of this Code for executive officers.
If employees have any questions regarding acceptable conduct or the interpretation of this Code, or if they are in doubt about the best course of action in a particular situation, it is their responsibility to seek clarification from their line management or, if necessary, from CONSOL's Legal or HR Department or Internal Auditing management.
 
 
 
Gifts, favors, and entertainment may be provided to others at Company expense or for the benefit of the Company or its employees in their capacity as employees only if they meet all of the following criteria:
 
 
 
 
 
Accounting records and supporting documentation reflecting gifts, favors, and entertainment to others must be accurately stated, including appropriate, clear and descriptive text. Departments are encouraged to establish policies and procedures for approval in advance of gifts, favors, or entertainment of unusual monetary value (U.S. tax law limits the deduction for business gifts per recipient per year).
 
Payments to Government personnel to facilitate the rendition of services are prohibited. However, the Company does not prohibit customary expediting payments, properly recorded in the Company's books, which are not excessive in amount, if and only if:
 
 
 
 
The form or manner of payment is irrelevant in determining whether a payment is permissible.
In case of doubt as to the legality of any payment, gift, favor, or entertainment proposed to be given by or on behalf of the Company, a CONSOL Legal Department representative should be consulted in advance of commitment.
 
In connection with sales by the Company, commissions, rebates, discounts, credits, and allowances should be paid or granted only by the Company on whose books the related sale is recorded, and such payments should:
 
 
 
 
Agreements for the Company to pay commissions, rebates, credits, discounts, or allowances should be in writing; however, when this is not feasible, the payment arrangement should be supported by an explanatory memorandum for the file prepared by the approving department and reviewed by the CONSOL Legal Department.
The intent of the above policy applicable to the payment or granting of commissions, rebates, discounts, credits and allowances in connection with sales by the Company is to avoid illegal or unethical payments, or establishing an environment where these may inadvertently be made. The business world is complex, however, and there may be unusual situations in apparent conflict with one or more of the policy guidelines. Such situations may nevertheless be acceptable business practice and warrant an exception. Any such exceptions, including those arising outside the United States and its territories, should be reviewed with the CONSOL Treasury and Legal Departments. In all cases, however, CONSOL Internal Auditing must be informed in advance. There must be no falsification, misrepresentation, or deliberate overbilling reflected in any document (including invoices, consular documents, letter of credits, etc.) involved in the transaction. This includes suppression or omission of documents or of information in the documents, or deliberate misdirection of documents.
 
In connection with Company purchases of goods and services, including commissions related thereto, payments shall:
 
 
 
 
All such payments shall be consistent with corporate and trade practice.
Payments for goods and services purchased by the Company are otherwise subject to the same considerations noted above in the procedures with respect to payment of commissions, etc., in connection with sales by the Company. Payments for goods and services made in the country in which the product was delivered or service rendered by the vendor are not, per se, considered subject to special review or a requirement for a written request for payment from an officer of the payee unless circumstances suggest the manner of payment might be illegal or unethical.
 
Employees shall neither seek nor accept for themselves or others any gifts, favors, or entertainment without a legitimate business purpose, nor seek or accept loans (other than conventional loans at market rates from lending institutions) from any person or business organization that does or seeks to do business with, or is a competitor of, the Company. In the application of this policy:
 
 
 
In certain situations, refusal of personal gifts, favors, or entertainment (because, for example, they have a value substantially in excess of customary business practices) can result in awkward business situations. The propriety of employees accepting such favors or entertainment or keeping such valuable gifts for personal use versus turning them over to the Company, donating them to a charity or other disposition should be discussed in each case with the employee's management and documented.
 
Employees should avoid any situation that involves or may involve a conflict between their personal interests and the Company's interests. As in all other facets of their duties, employees dealing with customers, suppliers, contractors, competitors or any persons doing or seeking to do business with the Company are to act in the best interests of the Company to the exclusion of considerations of personal preference or advantage. Each employee shall make prompt and full disclosure in writing to his department management of a prospective situation that may involve a conflict of interest. This includes:
 
 
 
 
All information disclosed to management as required by this policy shall be treated confidentially, except to the extent necessary to protect the Company's interests.
The key to review of potential conflicts is whether the employee's duties for the Company, or those of his subordinates, require making decisions that could be influenced by the interest reported. Other considerations include, but are not limited to whether or not:
 
 
 
 
Conflicts of interest involving real estate, coal, oil and gas leases, and mineral interests are particularly sensitive. All employees are prohibited from competing with the Company in its real estate
 
In questions of conflict of interest, the term "family" should be interpreted broadly.
 
acquisition or exploration activities, or using Company information or equipment to enable them to profit, either directly or indirectly, through the acquisition of mineral leases, royalty or mineral interests, or real property for the purpose of obtaining royalty or mineral interests.
 
Employees should not accept a directorship with any for-profit corporation without the prior specific approval of the General Counsel of the Company. Employees should ensure their participation or service to other organizations, be they civic, charitable, corporate, governmental, public, private, or non-profit in nature, do not (a) materially detract from or interfere with the full and timely performance of their services to the Company, or (b) create possible conflicts of interest as to the Company.
 
All Company employees shall ensure the proper handling, protection and disposal of business information. Every employee is responsible for compliance. In addition, supervisory employees are responsible for compliance by their subordinate employees and non-employees under their supervision. Business information is a valuable resource to the Company. Improperly handled or disclosed business information (whether intentional or inadvertent), may result in financial damage to the Company; a diminution of our competitiveness; exposure of the Company, its officers, and its directors to legal liability; or otherwise adversely affect shareholders or other stakeholders of the Company. The primary purpose of this policy is to ensure that employees and others understand the need to protect business information; provide guidance in the proper handling of business information; prevent the unauthorized disclosure; or the loss of business information; and notify employees and others of the possible consequences of failure to comply with this policy.
To this end, employees shall not:
 
 
Employees shall, upon termination of their employment, return to the Company all memoranda, books, papers, plans, information, letters and other data, including electronic files, and all copies thereof or therefrom, which in any way relate to the business of the Company, except that employees may retain personal notes, notebooks and diaries.
Improper use of sensitive inside information can be significantly inhibited by careful control and restriction of access to such information. Employees who handle particularly sensitive inside information, and who may not have the background to understand the legal and corporate implications of the misuse of such information, should be periodically advised of corporate policy and the severe legal penalties that can be associated with misuse of inside information. It is important to remember that these obligations continue even though a person is no longer employed by the Company.
 
Every employee shall deal honestly and fairly with the Company's directors, officers, employees, customers, suppliers, and competitors, and shall not take unfair advantage of others through manipulation, concealment, abuse of privileged information, misrepresentation of material facts, or other unfair dealing practices.
 
If any employee has material nonpublic information relating to the Company, neither that person nor any related person may buy or sell securities of the Company or engage in any other action to take advantage (directly or indirectly, or for another person's benefit) of that information. Further, if an employee acquires material, non-public information regarding other companies, including the Company's customers or suppliers during the course of their employment, neither they nor any related person may buy or sell securities of the other company or engage in any other action to take advantage (directly or indirectly, or for another person's benefit) of that information. Transactions that may be necessary or justifiable for independent reasons (such as the need to raise money for an emergency expenditure) are no exception. Even the appearance of an improper transaction must be avoided to preserve the Company's reputation for adhering to the highest standards of conduct. Employees should refer to the Statement of Policy on Securities Trades by Company employees for further information.
 
The use of the Company's computer information systems and the Company data transmitted and/or stored electronically are assets requiring unique protection. Standards for Electronic Information Security have been adopted and are available through line management or CONSOL's Information Systems & Technology Department. Each employee is responsible for compliance with the standards and related procedures. Additionally, employees are required by law to read and comply with the license agreements associated with the computer software they acquire.
 
All employees are expected to comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations including, but not limited to, the following:
 
The Company's activities are subject to federal and state antitrust laws. In general, those laws prohibit agreements or actions that may restrain trade or reduce competition. Violations include agreements among competitors to fix or control prices; to boycott specified suppliers or customers; to allocate products, territories or markets; or to limit the production or sale of products. Care must be exercised to ensure that any activities with representatives of other companies are not viewed as a violation of any antitrust law. Actions taken by the Company without cooperation of competitors may also be illegal if they are intended to or tend to create monopoly power. Because of the complexity of antitrust laws, the advice of CONSOL's Legal Department should be sought on all questions regarding this subject.
 
Antiboycott laws prohibit participation in, or cooperation with, international boycotts which U.S. law does not sanction. For example, it is a violation of U.S. law to refrain from doing business with boycotted countries or blacklisted persons, or to furnish information about business relationships of a U.S. person with such countries or persons. The mere receipt of a request to engage in any such boycotting activity becomes a reportable event by law. Such requests should be brought to the attention of CONSOL's Legal Department.
 
It is the Company's policy to conduct all operations in such a manner as to protect and preserve the environment and the health and safety of employees. To that end, the Company's policy is that all operations shall be conducted in full compliance with all applicable state and federal environmental and health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations affect work practices at all Company sites and the impact of our operations on the air, land and water. Employees must be scrupulous in the observance of
 
applicable laws and regulations to avoid risks to the health and safety of employees and to the environment. The advice of line and staff environmental specialists and CONSOL's Legal Department in these areas should be utilized as needed.
 
 
It is the Company's policy to provide equal opportunity for all qualified persons without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, handicap, disability, marital status, national origin, or veteran status. This applies to, but is not limited to hiring, placement, upgrading, demotion, transfers, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff or termination, rate of pay or other forms of compensation, selection for training, and all other aspects of employment.
 
Sexual harassment or abuse of others (employees and non-employees) in the workplace by employees is prohibited and will not be tolerated. Additionally management will not condone affronts to the dignity of any employee, male or female, whether under the guise of initiating new employees to the workforce or otherwise. It is everyone's responsibility to maintain a proper workplace for all employees. If employees have any questions or concerns in the area of equal employment opportunity, they should bring them to the immediate attention of their supervisor or CONSOL's Legal Department.
 
Employees shall not make a contribution of any Company funds, property or services to any political party or committee, domestic or foreign, or to any candidate for or holder of any office of any government  national, state, local, or foreign. This policy does not preclude (1) the operation of a political action committee under applicable laws (2) Company contributions, where lawful, to support or oppose public referenda or similar ballot issues, or (3) Company political contributions, where lawful and reviewed in advance by CONSOL's head of Government Affairs and approved in writing by the President and CEO of CONSOL who will advise the appropriate Boards of Directors. No direct or indirect pressure in any form is to be directed toward employees to make any political contribution or participate in the support of a political party or the political candidacy of any individual.
This policy is not intended to affect the rights of officers, employees, and agents of the Company to make personal political contributions to the party, committee, or candidate of their choice as long as the donation is derived exclusively from that individual's personal funds or time and in no way was compensated directly or indirectly by the Company.
 
Travel and entertainment should be consistent with the needs of the Company's business. Employees are expected to exercise good judgment, travel on Company business in a cost-efficient manner, adhere to normal safety requirements, and promptly report any expenditures incurred. The Company's intent is that an employee neither loses nor gains financially as a result of business travel and entertainment. Detailed instructions related to business travel are documented in the Travel and Entertainment Expense Policy and Procedures Manual.
Employees who approve travel and entertainment expense reports are responsible for the propriety and reasonableness of expenditures, for ensuring that expense reports of their subordinates are submitted promptly, and that receipts and explanations properly support reported expenses.
 
It is the Company's policy to comply with all financial reporting and accounting regulations applicable to the Corporation. All accounts and records shall be documented in a manner that:
 
 
 
No record, entry, or document shall be false, distorted, misleading, misdirected, deliberately incomplete, or suppressed.
The Company has established internal control standards and procedures to ensure that assets are protected and properly used and that financial reports are accurate and reliable. Employees share the responsibility for maintaining and complying with required internal controls.
Improper accounting and documentation are not only contrary to the Company policy but also may be in violation of the accounting provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, the Public Company Accounting and Investor Protections Act of 2002 or other laws or regulations, potentially involving personal liability, both civil and criminal, as well as sanctions against the Company.
If any employee has concerns or complaints regarding accounting or auditing matters of the Company, then he or she shall submit those concerns or complaints to the Chair of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors promptly.
 
Employees must protect the Company's assets and ensure their efficient use. Theft, loss, misuse, carelessness, and waste of assets have a direct impact on the Company's profitability. In general, all Company assets should be used only for legitimate business purposes. Occasional, nominal personal use of the Company's assets is permissible. The Company may, in its discretion, request reimbursement for the direct costs associated with such use.
Although the Company recognizes that nominal personal use of Company assets may be appropriate, the Company's intellectual and proprietary information, software applications, product plans, documentation of business systems and other business data are only to be used for authorized business purposes.
 
All employees owe a duty to the Company to advance the Company's legitimate interests when the opportunity to do so arises. An employee shall not: (a) receive or seek to receive a benefit from opportunities that are discovered or developed through his or her involvement with the Company (including without limitation, his or her use of the Company's property or information, or his or her position); (b) using corporate property, information or position for personal gain; or (c) compete with the Company, directly or indirectly, for business opportunities
 
The Company conducts an annual review of employee compliance with the Code by surveying management personnel and other employees who have significant influence or approval authorization over the areas included in the Code, or who have access to significant confidential or proprietary information.
Annually CONSOL's Internal Auditing conducts an independent review of the Company's survey process. The results of this review will be presented annually by Internal Auditing to CONSOL's Audit Committee.
 
Employees are expected to comply with this Code and underlying policies and procedures. Strict adherence to these standards will protect the Company and its employees from criticism, litigation or embarrassment that might result from alleged or real conflicts of interest or unethical practices. Violations of this Code are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including discharge and possible legal prosecution.
Employees should report apparent violations of this Code through their line organization, CONSOL's Legal Department, Internal Audit or, if they prefer, to the CONSOL Ethics and Compliance Hotline by calling 1-800-544-8024. This is a toll-free service that is available 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year and, though not intended as a substitute for speaking directly to management, is an option that allows you to report illegal or unethical behavior or activity anonymously. The Company will not allow retaliation for reports made in good faith.
 
Waivers or exceptions to this Code must conform with applicable law and regulation and be approved by the Chief Financial Officer or the General Counsel, or in the case of executive officers by the Board of Directors of the Company. Exceptions or waivers will be granted only after full disclosure of all material facts and, in the case of executive officers, will be promptly disclosed to the extent required by law or regulation.
 
Nothing in this Code is intended to alter other legal rights and obligations of the Company or its employees (such as "at will" employment arrangements.)
 


