FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20080819172405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e)
The Board of Directors of CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas") has authorized an amendment to the CNX Gas Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, including the long-term incentive programs thereunder. As authorized to be amended, the CNX Gas Equity Incentive Plan provides that if CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL Energy") acquires the outstanding shares of CNX Gas common stock that CONSOL Energy does not currently own (a "Take-In Transaction"), then, in that event:
a. vested CNX Gas stock options would be cashed out;
b. unvested CNX Gas stock options would be converted into CONSOL Energy stock options and continue to vest in accordance with the applicable CNX Gas vesting schedule;
c. unvested CNX Gas restricted stock units would be converted into CONSOL Energy restricted stock units and continue to vest in accordance with the applicable CNX Gas vesting schedule;
d. CNX Gas performance share units would be treated as follows: 50% would be cashed out (or at the employee's election converted into CONSOL Energy restricted stock units which would continue to vest in accordance with the applicable CNX Gas vesting schedule) and 50% would be converted into CONSOL Energy restricted stock units and continue to vest in accordance with the applicable CNX Gas vesting schedule; and
The Board of Directors of CNX Gas has also authorized Take-In Severance Agreements ("TIS Agreements") to be entered into with certain CNX Gas employees (including CNX Gas' chief executive officer who is also a named executive officer of CONSOL Energy). Under the TIS Agreements, if during the two year period following a Take-In Transaction, either (x) the employment of a CNX Gas employee who is a party to a TIS Agreement is terminated by CONSOL Energy or its subsidiaries without cause, or (y) the CNX Gas employee's total direct compensation (base salary plus target short-term incentive compensation opportunity plus target long-term incentive compensation opportunity) is reduced by more than twenty percent (20%) and the employee resigns, then the employee would be entitled to (a) one year of severance and benefits, and (b) retain any unvested CONSOL Energy stock options and restricted stock units with the stock options becoming exerciseable and the shares for the restricted stock units being issued at the times specified in the applicable vesting schedule.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: August 19, 2008


