FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20090501170509.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On April 28, 2009, the stockholders of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company"), at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Equity Incentive Plan (the "Plan") to, among other things, increase the number of shares authorized for issuance thereunder from 18,200,000 to 23,800,000. A summary description of the Plan follows:
The Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee (the "Compensation Committee") of the Board of Directors (the "Board"), which has delegated the day-to-day ministerial aspects of the Plan to the Company's officers. The Compensation Committee grants awards under the Plan and, in the case of awards to non-employee directors on the Board and the Chief Executive Officer, such awards are subject to ratification and approval by the Board. The employees and directors of the Company and its affiliates are eligible to receive awards under the Plan.
The Plan consists of the following components: stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards (cash and equity), deferred stock units and other stock-based awards. The Plan provides that the aggregate number of shares available for issuance under the Plan will be reduced by one share for each share issued in settlement of any award; provided, however, that such aggregate number of shares will be reduced by 1.44 shares for awards granted after April 28, 2009 for each share issued in settlement of a "full-value award" granted after April 28, 2009 (e.g., any award under the Plan pursuant to which shares, other than a stock option or stock appreciation right, may be issued). If any shares of common stock covered by or related to an award granted under the Plan are forfeited, or if such an award is settled for cash, otherwise terminated or canceled without the delivery of shares of common stock, then the shares covered by or related to such award, or the number of shares otherwise counted against the aggregate number of shares of common stock with respect to which awards may be granted, to the extent of any such settlement, forfeiture, termination or cancellation, will again become shares with respect to which awards may be granted; provided, however, that shares (i) delivered in payment of the exercise price of an option, (ii) not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of stock appreciation rights, or (iii) delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay withholding taxes related to an option or stock appreciation right, will not become available again for issuance under the Plan. Awards granted under the Plan may provide for the payment of dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, shares, other securities or other property on a current or deferred basis. Except to the extent provided in an award agreement, no award may be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by a participant, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
The total number of shares which may be issued under the Plan with respect to stock options is 23,800,000. Subject to certain anti-dilution adjustments described below, (i) the maximum number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted to any participant during a calendar year is 2,000,000 shares, and (ii) the maximum annual number of shares in respect of which restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance awards, and other stock-based awards may be granted under the Plan to any participant is 650,000 shares. The maximum annual amount of any award settled for cash with respect to any participant is $2,000,000.
In the event that the Company engages in a transaction constituting a "change in control," the Compensation Committee will have complete authority and discretion, but not the obligation, to accelerate the vesting of outstanding awards and the termination of restrictions on shares. As part of any agreement in connection with a "change in control," the Compensation Committee may also negotiate terms providing protection for participants, including, the assumption of any awards outstanding under the Plan or the substitution of similar awards for those awards outstanding under the Plan.
Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an award agreement or in the Plan, the Compensation Committee may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan, any award agreement or any portion thereof at any time; provided that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation, or termination will:
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of the Plan or an award agreement to the contrary, the Compensation Committee may at any time (without the consent of participants) modify, amend, or terminate any or all of the provisions of the Plan or an award agreement to the extent necessary to conform the provisions of the Plan and/or the award agreement with Section 162(m), Section 409A or any other provision of the Federal income tax laws, regardless of whether such modification, amendment or termination of the Plan and/or award agreement shall adversely affect the rights of a participant, and to enable the Plan to achieve its stated purposes in any jurisdiction outside the United States in a tax-efficient manner and in compliance with local rules and regulations. Notwithstanding, the Compensation Committee may not amend Section 10 (Eligible Directors) of the Plan without the consent of the Board or Section 2(a) of the Plan which provides that the Board must approve awards made to its non-employee directors and the Chief Executive Officer.
In the event a dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination, repurchase, or exchange of shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Board to be necessary in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Board will, in an equitable manner, (i) adjust any or all of (A) the number of shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) with respect to which awards may be granted, (B) the maximum number of shares subject to an award granted to a participant pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Plan, (C) the number of shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) subject to outstanding awards, and (D) the grant or exercise price with respect to any award; (ii) if deemed appropriate, provide for an equivalent award in respect of securities of the surviving entity of any merger, consolidation or other transaction or event having a similar effect; or (iii) if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding award; provided, in each case, that (A) with respect to awards of options no such adjustment may be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Internal Revenue Code (the "Code"), as from time to time amended, (B) with respect to any award no such adjustment may be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, unless otherwise determined by the Board, and (C) with respect to any award subject to Section 409A, no such adjustment may be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to fail to comply with, or qualify for, an exception to Section 409A of the Code.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by a copy of the Plan which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 1, 2009
 

Exhibit 10.1
Capitalized terms shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16 of the Plan.
1. .
PURPOSE
The purposes of the CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan as amended and restated as set forth herein are to promote the interests of the Company and its stockholders by (i) attracting and retaining Eligible Directors, executive officers and other key employees of the Company and its Affiliates; (ii) motivating such individuals by means of performance-related incentives to achieve long-range performance goals; and (iii) enabling such individuals to participate in the long-term growth and financial success of the Company. The Plan is amended and restated as set forth herein to comply with Section 409A.
2. .
RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION
(a) . Subject to the terms of the Plan and applicable law, and in addition to other express powers and authorizations conferred on the Board by the Plan, the Board shall have full power and discretionary authority to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan; provided, however, that ministerial responsibilities of the Plan (e.g., management of day-to-day matters) may be delegated to the Company's officers, as set forth in Section 2(d) below. The Board's powers include the authority to: (i) designate Participants; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards to be granted to an eligible Employee; (iii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by, or with respect to which payments, rights, or other matters are to be calculated in connection with, Awards; (iv) determine the terms and conditions of any Award, including the discretion to determine the extent to which Awards will be structured to conform to the requirements applicable to performance-based compensation described in Section 162(m) of the Code; (v) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances Awards may be settled or exercised in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property, or canceled, forfeited, or suspended and the method or methods by which Awards may be settled, exercised, canceled, forfeited, or suspended; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards, other property, and other amounts payable with respect to an Award shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the holder thereof or of the Board; (vii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement relating to, or Award made under, the Plan; (viii) establish, amend, suspend, or waive such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (ix) advance the lapse of any waiting period, accelerate any exercise date, waive or modify any restriction applicable to Awards (except those restrictions imposed by law); (x) correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award Agreement in the manner and to the extent it shall deem expedient to carry the Plan into effect; and (xi) make any other determination and take any other action that the Board deems necessary or desirable for the administration of the Plan. All decisions and determinations of the Board shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Participant and any and all interested parties.
Authority of Board
(b) . Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan, all designations, determinations, interpretations, and other decisions under or with respect to the Plan or any Award shall be within the sole discretion of the Board, may be made at any time and shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon all Persons, including the Company, any Affiliate, any Participant, any holder or beneficiary of any Award, any stockholder and any Employee.
Board Discretion Binding
 
(c) . The Board may delegate to the Committee any or all its authority for the administration of the Plan, and may revoke such delegation at any time; provided, however, that the Board shall ratify and approve (i) any Awards to the Company's Eligible Directors and Chief Executive Officer and (ii) amendments to the Plan. If authority is delegated to the Committee, all references to the Board in the Plan shall mean and relate to the Committee except as otherwise provided by the Board.
Delegation to Committee
(d) . Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or regulation, the Board or the Committee may delegate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it, and may revoke such delegation at any time. The ministerial responsibilities of the Plan (e.g., management of day-to-day matters) are a function that has been delegated to the Company's officers as permitted by the terms of the Plan and in compliance with applicable law and regulation. No officer to whom administrative authority has been delegated pursuant to this provision may waive or modify any restriction applicable to an award to such officer under the Plan.
Delegation to Officer
(e) . No member of the Board, the Committee, or any person they delegate responsibilities and/or duties to, shall be liable for any action taken or determination made in good faith with respect to the Plan or any Award granted hereunder.
No Liability
3. .
SHARES AVAILABLE FOR AWARDS; LIMITATIONS
(a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3(c), the total number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under the Plan shall be 23,800,000. For Awards issued after April 28, 2009, the aggregate number of Shares available with respect to Awards under the Plan shall be reduced by one (1) Share for each Share to which an Award relates; , that such aggregate number of Shares available with respect to Awards under the Plan shall be reduced by 1.44 Shares for each Share which relates to a Full-Value Award. The total number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan with respect to Stock Options shall be 23,800,000. If, after the Effective Date, any Shares covered by an Award granted under the Plan, or to which such an Award relates, are forfeited, or otherwise terminates or is canceled without the delivery of Shares, then the Shares covered by such Award, or to which such Award relates, or the number of Shares otherwise counted against the aggregate number of shares with respect to which Awards may be granted (including the 1.44 shares that relate to Full Value Awards), to the extent of any such forfeiture, termination or cancellation, shall again become Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted; provided, however, that Shares (i) delivered in payment of the exercise price of an Option, (ii) not issued upon the net settlement or net exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights, or (iii) delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay withholding taxes related to an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, shall not become available again for issuance under this Plan.
Shares Available.
provided, however
(b) . Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3(c), the maximum number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted to any Participant during a calendar year shall be 2,000,000 Shares. The maximum annual number of Shares in respect of which Restricted Stock Awards, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Awards and Other Stock-Based Awards may be granted under the Plan to any Participant is 650,000 and the maximum annual amount of any Award settled in cash with respect to any Participant is $2 million.
Limitations on Awards
(c) . In the event a dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities, or other property), recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, split-up, spin-off, combination,
Adjustments
 
repurchase, or exchange of Shares or other securities of the Company, issuance of warrants or other rights to purchase Shares or other securities of the Company, or other similar corporate transaction or event affects the Shares such that an adjustment is determined by the Board to be necessary in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, then the Board shall, in an equitable manner, (i) adjust any or all of (A) the number of Shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) with respect to which Awards may be granted, (B) the maximum number of Shares subject to an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 3(b) of the Plan, (C) the number of Shares or other securities of the Company (or number and kind of other securities or property) subject to outstanding Awards, and (D) the grant or exercise price with respect to any Award; (ii) if deemed appropriate, provide for an equivalent award in respect of securities of the surviving entity of any merger, consolidation or other transaction or event having a similar effect; or (iii) if deemed appropriate, make provision for a cash payment to the holder of an outstanding Award; provided, in each case, that (A) with respect to Awards of Incentive Stock Options no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to violate Section 422(b)(1) of the Code, as from time to time amended, (B) with respect to any Award no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code, unless otherwise determined by the Board, and (C) with respect to any Award subject to Section 409A, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would cause the Plan to fail to comply with, or qualify for, an exception to Section 409A.
(d) . Any Shares underlying Substitute Awards shall not, unless required by law, be counted against the Shares available for Awards under the Plan.
Substitute Awards
(e) . Shares to be issued under the Plan may be made available from authorized and unissued Shares or of treasury Shares. During the term of the Plan, the Company will at all times reserve and keep available the number of Shares of Stock that shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
Sources of Shares Deliverable under Awards
4.
ELIGIBILITY.
Any Employee, including any officer or employee-director of the Company or any Affiliate, who is not a member of the Committee, shall be eligible to be designated a Participant. Eligible Directors shall be eligible for Awards as described in Section 10.
5. .
STOCK OPTIONS
(a) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Options shall be granted (provided that Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to employees of the Company or a parent or subsidiary of the Company within the meaning of Code Sections 424 (e) and (f)), the number of Shares to be covered by each Option, the Option price and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise of the Option. The Board shall have the authority to grant Incentive Stock Options, or to grant Non-Qualified Stock Options, or to grant both types of Options. In the case of Incentive Stock Options, the terms and conditions of such grants shall be subject to and comply with such rules as may be prescribed by Section 422 of the Code, as from time to time amended, and any regulations implementing such statute.
Grant
(b) . The Board in its sole discretion shall establish the exercise price at the time each Option is granted. The exercise price of an Option may not be less than the Fair Market Value on the Grant Date, except in the case of Substitute Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines.
Exercise Price
 
(c) . Each Option shall be exercisable at such times and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may, in its sole discretion, specify in the applicable Award Agreement or thereafter. The Board may impose such conditions with respect to the exercise of Options, including without limitation, any relating to the application of federal or state securities laws, as it may deem necessary or advisable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option shall not be exercisable after the expiration of ten years from the Grant Date.
Exercise
(d) . No Shares shall be delivered pursuant to any exercise of an Option until payment in full of the Option price is received by the Company. Such payment may be made in cash, or its equivalent, or by exchanging, actually or constructively, Shares owned by the Participant (for any minimum period set forth in the Award Agreement or as may otherwise be required by the Board and which are not the subject of any pledge or other security interest), or by a combination of the foregoing, provided that the combined value of all cash and cash equivalents and the Fair Market Value of any such Shares so tendered to the Company as of the date of such tender is at least equal to such Option price. A Participant may elect to pay all or any portion of the aggregate exercise price by having Shares with a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to the aggregate exercise price withheld by the Company or sold by a broker-dealer or, as provided in an Award Agreement, by having Shares withheld with such value by the Company.
Payment
(e) . The Board may provide in an Award Agreement for the automatic grant of a Restoration Option to a Participant who delivers Shares in payment of the exercise price of any Option granted hereunder in accordance with Section 5(d), or in the event that the withholding tax liability arising upon exercise of any such Option by a Participant is satisfied through the withholding by the Company of Shares otherwise deliverable upon exercise of the Option. The grant of a Restoration Option shall be subject to the satisfaction of such conditions or criteria as the Board in its sole discretion shall establish from time to time. A Restoration Option shall entitle the holder thereof to purchase a number of Shares equal to the number of such Shares so delivered or withheld upon exercise of the original Option. A Restoration Option shall have a per share exercise price of not less than 100% of the per Share Fair Market Value on the Grant Date of such Restoration Option and such other terms and conditions as the Board in its sole discretion shall determine.
Restoration Options
6. .
STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
(a) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Stock Appreciation Rights shall be granted, the number of Shares to be covered by each Stock Appreciation Right Award, the grant price thereof and the conditions and limitations applicable to the exercise thereof. Stock Appreciation Rights may be granted in tandem with another Award, in addition to another Award, or freestanding and unrelated to another Award. Stock Appreciation Rights granted in tandem with or in addition to an Award may be granted either at the same time as the Award or, except in the case of Incentive Stock Options, at a later time. Stock Appreciation Rights shall not be exercisable earlier than six months after the Grant Date, and shall have a grant price no less that the Fair Market Value of Shares covered by the right on the Grant Date (except with respect to a Substitute Award)
Grant
.
(b) . A Stock Appreciation Right shall entitle the Participant to receive an amount equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of exercise of the Stock Appreciation Right over the grant price thereof. The Board shall determine whether a Stock Appreciation Right shall be settled in cash, Shares or a combination of cash and Shares. Stock Appreciation Rights to be settled in shares of Common Stock shall be counted in full against the number of shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Exercise Gain Shares issued upon settlement of the Stock Appreciation Right.
Exercise and Payment
 
(c) . Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board shall determine, at or after the grant of a Stock Appreciation Right, the term (up to a maximum of ten years from the Grant Date), methods of exercise, methods and form of settlement, and any other terms and conditions of any Stock Appreciation Right. Any such determination by the Board may be changed by the Board from time to time and may govern the exercise of Stock Appreciation Rights granted or exercised prior to such determination as well as Stock Appreciation Rights granted or exercised thereafter. The Board may impose such conditions or restrictions on the exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right as it shall deem appropriate.
Other Terms and Conditions
7.
RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS.
(a) . Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Participants to whom Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall be granted, the number of Shares of Restricted Stock and/or the number of Restricted Stock Units to be granted to each Participant, the duration of the period during which, and the conditions under which, the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be forfeited to the Company, and the other terms and conditions of such Awards. The standard vesting schedule applicable to Awards of Restricted Stock and/or Restricted Stock Units shall provide for vesting of such Awards, in or more increments, over a service period of no less than three years; provided however, this limitation shall not: (i) apply to Awards granted to Eligible Directors pursuant to the Company's compensation program applicable to Eligible Directors, (ii) adversely affect a Participant's rights under another plan or agreement, or (iii) apply to Substitute Awards or any other Awards granted in exchange for the surrender of, or substitution of, another company's awards to its employees and directors.
Grant
(b) . Shares of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may not be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, except, in the case of Restricted Stock, as provided in the Plan or the applicable Award Agreements. Certificates issued in respect of Shares of Restricted Stock shall be registered in the name of the Participant and deposited by such Participant, together with a stock power endorsed in blank, with the Company. Upon the lapse of the restrictions applicable to such Shares of Restricted Stock, the Company shall deliver such certificates to the Participant or the Participant's legal representative.
Transfer Restrictions
(c) . Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have a value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share. Restricted Stock Units shall be paid in cash, Shares, other securities or other property, as determined in the sole discretion of the Board, upon the lapse of the restrictions applicable thereto, or otherwise in accordance with the applicable Award Agreement.
Payment
(d) . Dividends and other distributions paid on or in respect of any Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units may be paid directly to the Participant, or may be reinvested in additional Shares of Restricted Stock or in additional Restricted Stock Units, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion.
Dividends and Distributions
8.
PERFORMANCE AWARDS.
(a) Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3, the Board shall have sole and complete authority to determine the Eligible Individuals who shall receive a "Performance Award," which shall consist of a right that is (i) denominated in cash, Options, or Shares, (ii) valued, as determined by the Board, in accordance with the achievement of such performance goals during
Grant.
 
such performance periods as the Board shall establish, and (iii) payable at such time and in such form as the Board shall determine. Unless otherwise determined by the Board, any such Performance Award shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement containing the terms of the award, including, but not limited to, the performance criteria and such terms and conditions as may be determined from time to time by the Board, in each case, not inconsistent with this Plan. In relation to any Performance Award, the performance period may consist of one or more calendar years or other fiscal period of at least 12 months in length for which performance is being measured.
(b) . For Awards intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, Performance Awards shall be conditioned upon the achievement of pre-established goals relating to one or more of the following performance measures, as determined in writing by the Board and subject to such modifications as specified by the Board: cash flow; cash flow from operations; earnings (including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization or some variation thereof); earnings per share, diluted or basic; earnings per share from continuing operations; net asset turnover; inventory turnover; capital expenditures; debt; debt reduction; working capital; return on investment; return on sales; net or gross sales; market share; economic value added; cost of capital; change in assets; expense reduction levels; productivity; delivery performance; safety record; stock price; return on equity; total or relative increases to stockholder return; return on capital; return on assets or net assets; revenue; income or net income; operating income or net operating income; operating profit or net operating profit; gross margin, operating margin or profit margin; and completion of acquisitions, business expansion, product diversification and other non-financial operating and management performance objectives. To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Board may determine at the time the performance goals are established that certain adjustments shall apply, in whole or in part, in such manner as determined by the Board, to exclude the effect of any of the following events that occur during a performance period: the impairment of tangible or intangible assets; litigation or claim judgments or settlements; the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; business combinations, reorganizations and/or restructuring programs, including, but not limited to, reductions in force and early retirement incentives; currency fluctuations; and any extraordinary, unusual, infrequent or non-recurring items, including, but not limited to, such items described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations or the financial statements and notes thereto appearing in the Company's annual report to stockholders for the applicable year. Performance measures may be determined either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit or subsidiary entity thereof, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured over a period of time including any portion of a year, annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Board.
Terms and Conditions
(c) . For Awards intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code, performance goals relating to the performance measures set forth above shall be preestablished in writing by the Board, and achievement thereof certified in writing prior to payment of the Award, as required by Section 162(m) and regulations promulgated thereunder. All such performance goals shall be established in writing no later than ninety (90) days after the beginning of the applicable performance period; provided however, that for a performance period of less than one year, the Board shall take any such actions prior to the lapse of 25% of the performance period. In addition to establishing minimum performance goals below which no compensation shall be payable pursuant to a Performance Award, the Board, in its discretion, may create a performance schedule under which an amount less than or more than the target award may be paid so long as the performance goals have been achieved.
Preestablished Performance Goals
 
(d) . The Board, in its sole discretion, may also establish such additional restrictions or conditions that must be satisfied as a condition precedent to the payment of all or a portion of any Performance Awards. Such additional restrictions or conditions need not be performance-based and may include, among other things, the receipt by a Participant of a specified annual performance rating, the continued employment by the Participant and/or the achievement of specified performance goals by the Company, business unit or Participant. Furthermore and notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the contrary, the Board, in its sole discretion, may retain the discretion to reduce the amount of any Performance Award to a Participant if it concludes that such reduction is necessary or appropriate based upon: (i) an evaluation of such Participant's performance; (ii) comparisons with compensation received by other similarly situated individuals working within the Company's industry; (iii) the Company's financial results and conditions; or (iv) such other factors or conditions that the Board deems relevant; provided, however, the Board shall not use its discretionary authority to increase any Award that is intended to be performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Additional Restrictions/Negative Discretion
(e) . Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the performance period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Board, on a deferred basis.
Payment of Performance Awards
9.
OTHER STOCK-BASED AWARDS.
The Board shall have authority to grant to Participants "Other Stock-Based Awards," which shall consist of any right that is (i) not an Award described in Sections 5 through 8 above and (ii) an Award of Shares or an Award denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Shares (including, without limitation, securities convertible into Shares), as deemed by the Board to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan. Subject to the terms of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement, the Board shall determine the terms and conditions of any such Other Stock-Based Award.
10.
ELIGIBLE DIRECTORS.
Except as otherwise determined by the Board in its sole discretion, Eligible Directors shall receive Awards in accordance with this Section. Except as otherwise provided in this Section, Awards to Eligible Directors shall be subject to the remaining provisions of the Plan.
(a) . The exercise price per Share of each Option granted to an Eligible Director shall be the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date. Options shall vest ratably and become exercisable in one-third increments on each anniversary of the Grant Date. Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, Options shall expire 10 years from the Grant Date. Unvested Options shall immediately vest and become exercisable if an individual ceases to be a director on account of death, disability or retirement at normal retirement age for directors, and shall remain exercisable until the normal expiration of the Option. Upon termination as a director for any other reason other than Cause, unvested Options shall be forfeited and vested Options shall remain exercisable for three months following the termination date. Upon termination as a Director for Cause, all Options (whether or not vested) shall be forfeited as of the termination date.
Terms of Grants
(b) . The Board may grant Deferred Stock Units to Eligible Directors in lieu of all or any portion of the annual retainer or meeting fees otherwise payable to the Eligible Directors. Each Deferred Stock Unit shall entitle the Eligible Director to receive one Share or an amount of cash equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the payment date, on terms and conditions established by the Board. The Board may also permit Eligible Directors to elect to receive Deferred Stock Units in lieu
Deferred Stock Unit Grants
 
of all or any portion of the annual retainer or meeting fees otherwise payable to the Eligible Director in cash, or to defer receipt of Shares or cash to be paid pursuant to Deferred Stock Units, in accordance with a deferred compensation policy to be established by the Company.
(c) The Board in its sole discretion may grant other types of Awards to Eligible Directors other than those specifically described in this Section 10.
Other Awards.
11. .
TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT/SERVICE
The Board shall have the full power and authority to determine the terms and conditions that shall apply to any Award upon a termination of employment/service, including a termination by the Company or an Affiliate of the Company without Cause, by a Participant voluntarily, or by reason of death, Disability or Retirement.
12. .
CHANGE IN CONTROL
To the extent not inconsistent with Section 14(r) hereof, in the event that the Company engages in a transaction constituting a Change in Control, the Board shall have complete authority and discretion, but not the obligation, to accelerate the vesting of outstanding Awards and the termination of restrictions on Shares. As part of any agreement in connection with a Change in Control, the Board may also negotiate terms providing protection for Participants, including, the assumption of any Awards outstanding under the Plan or the substitution of similar awards for those outstanding under the Plan.
13. .
AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION
(a) . Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law and unless otherwise expressly provided in an Award Agreement or in the Plan, the Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue, cancel or terminate the Plan or an Award Agreement or any portion thereof at any time; provided, however, that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall: (i) be made without stockholder approval if it would constitute a repricing of an Option or a stock-settled Stock Appreciation Right under applicable listing standards or if such approval is necessary to comply with any tax or regulatory requirement for which or with which the Board deems it necessary or desirable to qualify or comply; or (ii) be made without the consent of the affected Participant, if such action would adversely affect any material rights of such Participant under any outstanding Award or (iii) accelerate the vesting or exercisability of any Awards other than in connection with a Participant's death, Disability, Retirement or a Change in Control or other transaction contemplated by Section 3(c) hereof; provided further, the foregoing limitation shall not apply to (A) Awards for up to 5 percent (5%) of the aggregate number of Shares authorized for issuance under this Plan or (B) any Performance Award the payment of which remains contingent on the attainment of performance goal(s). Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, the Board may at any time (without the consent of any Participant) modify, amend or terminate any or all of the provisions of this Plan or an Award Agreement to the extent necessary to: (i) conform the provisions of the Plan and/or Award with Section 162(m), Section 409A or any other provision of the Code or other applicable law, the regulations issued thereunder or an exception thereto, regardless of whether such modification, amendment or termination of the Plan and/or Award shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant; and (ii) to enable the Plan to achieve its stated purposes in any jurisdiction outside the United States in a tax-efficient manner and in compliance with local rules and regulations.
Amendments to the Plan and Award Agreements
;
(b) . The Board is authorized to make adjustments in the terms and conditions of, and the criteria included in, Awards in recognition of unusual or nonrecurring
Adjustment of Awards upon the Occurrence of Certain Unusual or Nonrecurring Events
 
events (including, without limitation, the events described in Section 3(c) hereof) affecting the Company, any Affiliate, or the financial statements of the Company or any Affiliate, or of changes in applicable laws, regulations, or accounting principles, whenever the Board determines that such adjustments are appropriate in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan; provided that no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such authority would be inconsistent with the Plan's meeting the requirements of Section 162(m) or Section 409A.
(c) . Any provision of this Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the Board may cause any Award granted hereunder to be canceled in consideration of a cash payment or alternative Award made to the holder of such canceled Award equal in value to the Fair Market Value of such canceled Award except to the extent that such payment would violate the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
Cancellation
14. .
GENERAL PROVISIONS
(a) . In the sole and complete discretion of the Board, an Award may provide the Participant with dividends or dividend equivalents, payable in cash, Shares, other securities or other property on a current or deferred basis.
Dividend Equivalents
(b) . Except to the extent provided in an Award Agreement, no Award shall be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by a Participant, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.
Nontransferability
(c) . No Employee, Participant or other Person shall have any claim to be granted any Award, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Employees, Eligible Directors, consultants, Participants, or holders or beneficiaries of Awards under the Plan. The terms and conditions of Awards need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
No Rights to Awards
(d) . All certificates for Shares or other securities of the Company or any Affiliate delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award or the exercise thereof shall be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Board may deem advisable under the Plan or the rules, regulations, and other requirements of the SEC, any stock exchange upon which such Shares or other securities are then listed, and any applicable Federal or state laws, and the Board may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
Share Certificates
(e) A Participant may be required to pay to the Company or any Affiliate and the Company or any Affiliate shall have the right and is hereby authorized to withhold from any Award, from any payment due or transfer made under any Award or under the Plan or from any compensation or other amount owing to a Participant an amount (in cash, Shares, other securities, other Awards or other property) sufficient to cover any federal, state, local or foreign income taxes or such other applicable taxes required by law in respect of an Award, its exercise, or any payment or transfer under an Award or under the Plan and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes. The Company may, in its discretion, permit a Participant (or any beneficiary or other Person entitled to act) to elect to pay a portion or all of the amount such taxes in such manner as the Committee shall deem to be appropriate, including, but not limited to, authorizing the Company to withhold, or agreeing to surrender to the Company, Shares owned by such Participant or a portion of such forms of payment that would otherwise be distributed pursuant to an Award. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, any broker-assisted cashless exercise shall comply with the requirements for equity classification of Paragraph 35 of FASB Statement No. 123(R) and any withholding satisfied through a net-settlement shall be limited to the minimum statutory withholding
Withholding.
 
requirements. The Board may provide for additional cash payments to holders of Awards to defray or offset any tax arising from the grant, vesting, exercise, or payments of any Award to the extent not inconsistent with Section 14(r) hereof.
(f) . Unless otherwise determined by the Board, each Award hereunder shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall be delivered to the Participant and shall specify the terms and conditions of the Award and any rules applicable thereto.
Award Agreements
(g) . Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company or any Affiliate from adopting or continuing in effect other compensation arrangements, which may, but need not, provide for the grant of options, restricted stock, Shares and other types of Awards provided for hereunder (subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required), and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
No Limit on Other Compensation Arrangements
(h) . The grant of an Award shall not be construed as giving a Participant the right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any Affiliate. Further, the Company or an Affiliate may at any time dismiss a Participant from employment, free from any liability or any claim under the Plan, unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in any Award Agreement.
No Right to Employment
(i) . Subject to the provisions of the applicable Award, no Participant or holder or beneficiary of any Award shall have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any Shares to be distributed under the Plan until he or she has become the holder of such Shares. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in connection with each grant of Restricted Stock hereunder, the applicable Award shall specify if and to what extent the Participant shall not be entitled to the rights of a stockholder in respect of such Restricted Stock.
No Rights as Stockholder
(j) . The validity, construction, and effect of the Plan and any rules and regulations relating to the Plan and any Award Agreement shall be determined in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to the conflict of law principles thereof.
Governing Law
(k) . If any provision of the Plan or any Award is or becomes or is deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction or as to any Person or Award, or would disqualify the Plan or any Award under any law deemed applicable by the Board, such provision shall be construed or deemed amended to conform to the applicable laws, or if it cannot be construed or deemed amended without, in the determination of the Board, materially altering the intent of the Plan or the Award, such provision shall be stricken as to such jurisdiction, Person or Award and the remainder of the Plan and any such Award shall remain in full force and effect.
Severability
(l) . The Board may refuse to issue or transfer any Shares or other consideration under an Award if, acting in its sole discretion, it determines that the issuance or transfer of such Shares or such other consideration might violate any applicable law or regulation or entitle the Company to recover the same under Section 16(b), and any payment tendered to the Company by a Participant, other holder or beneficiary in connection with the exercise of such Award shall be promptly refunded to the relevant Participant, holder, or beneficiary. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, no Award granted hereunder shall be construed as an offer to sell securities of the Company, and no such offer shall be outstanding, unless and until the Board in its sole discretion has determined that any such offer, if made, would be in compliance with all applicable requirements of the U.S. federal securities laws and any other laws to which such offer, if made, would be subject.
Other Laws
(m) . Neither the Plan nor any Award shall create or be construed to create a trust or separate fund of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between the Company or any Affiliate and a Participant or any other Person. To the extent that any Person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or any Affiliate pursuant to an Award, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or any Affiliate.
No Trust or Fund Created
 
(n) . No fractional Shares shall be issued or delivered pursuant to the Plan or any Award, and the Board shall determine whether cash, other securities, or other property shall be paid or transferred in lieu of any fractional Shares or whether such fractional Shares or any rights thereto shall be canceled, terminated, or otherwise eliminated.
No Fractional Shares
(o) . Headings are given to the Sections and subsections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference. Such headings shall not be deemed in any way material or relevant to the construction or interpretation of the Plan or any provision thereof.
Headings
(p) . The Board may provide in an Award Agreement that no amounts shall be paid or considered paid to the extent that any such payments would be nondeductible by the Company under Code Section 280G.
Parachute Payments
(q) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or Award Agreement to the contrary if an Award under this Plan is intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations issued thereunder and a provision of this Plan or an Award Agreement would prevent such Award from so qualifying, such provision shall be administered, interpreted and construed to carry out such intention (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed). In no event shall any member of the Board, the Committee or the Company (or its employees, officers or directors) have any liability to any Participant (or any other Person) due to the failure of an Award to satisfy the requirements of Section 162(m) of the Code.
Section 162(m).
(r) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, if any Award or benefit provided under this Plan is subject to the provisions of Section 409A, the provisions of the Plan and any applicable Award Agreement shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner necessary to comply with Section 409A or an exception thereto (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed). The following provisions shall apply, as applicable:
Section 409A.
(i) If a Participant is a Specified Employee and a payment subject to Section 409A (and not excepted therefrom) to the Participant is due upon Separation from Service, such payment shall be delayed for a period of six (6) months after the date the Participant Separates from Service (or, if earlier, the death of the Participant). Any payment that would otherwise have been due or owing during such six-month period will be paid immediately following the end of the six-month period in the month following the month containing the 6-month anniversary of the date of termination unless another compliant date is specified in the applicable agreement.
(ii) For purposes of Section 409A, and to the extent applicable to any Award or benefit under the Plan, it is intended that distribution events qualify as permissible distribution events for purposes of Section 409A and shall be interpreted and construed accordingly. With respect to payments subject to Section 409A, the Company reserves the right to accelerate and/or defer any payment to the extent permitted and consistent with Section 409A. Whether a Participant has Separated from Service or employment will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances and, to the extent applicable to any Award or benefit, in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A. For this purpose, a Participant will be presumed to have experienced a Separation from Service when the level of services performed permanently decreases to a level less than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period or such other applicable period as provided by Section 409A.
bona fide
bona fide
 
(iii) The Board, in its discretion, may specify the conditions under which the payment of all or any portion of any Award may be deferred until a later date. Deferrals shall be for such periods or until the occurrence of such events, and upon such terms and conditions, as the Board shall determine in its discretion, in accordance with the provisions of Section 409A, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that no deferral shall be permitted with respect to Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and other stock rights subject to Section 409A. An election shall be made by filing an election with the Company (on a form provided by the Company) on or prior to December 31st of the calendar year immediately preceding the beginning of the calendar year (or other applicable service period) to which such election relates (or at such other date as may be specified by the Board to the extent consistent with Section 409A) and shall be irrevocable for such applicable calendar year (or other applicable service period). To the extent authorized, a Participant who first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan may file an election ("Initial Election") at any time prior to the 30-day period following the date on which the Participant initially becomes eligible to participate in the Plan (or at such other date as may be specified by the Board to the extent consistent with Section 409A). Any such Initial Election shall only apply to compensation earned and payable for services rendered after the effective date of the Election.
(iv) The grant of Non-Qualified Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and other stock rights subject to Section 409A shall be granted under terms and conditions consistent with Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5) such that any such Award does not constitute a deferral of compensation under Section 409A. Accordingly, any such Award may be granted to Employees and Eligible Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in which the Company has a controlling interest. In determining whether the Company has a controlling interest, the rules of Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2(b)(2)(i) shall apply; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears; provided, further, where legitimate business reasons exist (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(b)(5)(iii)(E)(i)), the language "at least 20 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears. The rules of Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-3 and 1.414(c)-4 shall apply for purposes of determining ownership interests.
(v) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein and with respect to Options that were earned and vested under the Plan prior to January 1, 2005 (as determined under Section 409A, "Grandfather Options"), such Grandfathered Options are intended to be exempt from Section 409A and shall be administered and interpreted in a manner intended to ensure that any such Grandfathered Option remains exempt from Section 409A. No amendments or other modifications shall be made to such Grandfathered Options except as specifically set forth in a separate writing thereto, and no amendment or modification to the Plan shall be interpreted or construed in a manner that would cause a material modification (within the meaning of Section 409A, including Treas. Reg.  1.409A-6(a)(4)) to any such Grandfathered Options.
(vi) In no event shall any member of the Board, the Committee or the Company (or its employees, officers or directors) have any liability to any Participant (or any other Person) due to the failure of an Award to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A.
15. .
TERM OF THE PLAN
(a) . The Plan shall be effective as of the Effective Date.
Effective Date
 
(b) . No Incentive Stock Option shall be granted under the Plan after April 7, 2009 and no deferred stock units or awards other than incentive stock options may be granted after the tenth anniversary of the Effective Date. Unless otherwise expressly provided in the Plan or in an applicable Award Agreement, any Award granted hereunder may, and the authority of the Board or the Committee to amend, alter, adjust, suspend, discontinue, or terminate any such Award or to waive any conditions or rights under any such Award shall, continue after the authority for grant of new Awards hereunder has been exhausted.
Expiration Date
16. .
DEFINITIONS
As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
"Affiliate" shall mean (i) any entity that, directly or indirectly, is controlled by the Company, (ii) any entity in which the Company has a significant equity interest and (iii) an Affiliate of the Company as defined in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, in either case as determined by the Committee.
"Annual Service Period" means an annual period determined by the Board, which annual period shall be January 1 through December 31 or such other annual period as may be designated from time to time by the Board.
"Award" shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Award or other Stock-Based Award.
"Award Agreement" shall mean any written agreement, contract, or other instrument or document evidencing any Award, which shall not become effective until executed or acknowledged by a Participant.
"Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Cause" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, a determination by the Committee that a Participant has: (1) committed an act of embezzlement, fraud, dishonesty or breach of fiduciary duty to the Company; (2) deliberately and repeatedly violated the rules of the Company or the valid instructions of the Board or an authorized officer of the Company; (3) made any unauthorized disclosure of any of the material secrets or confidential information of the Company; or (4) engaged in any conduct that could reasonably be expected to result in material loss, damage or injury to the Company.
"Change in Control" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, the earliest to occur of: (1) any one "person" as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act (other than (A) the Company, (B) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company, and (C) any corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of Shares), or more than one "person" acting as a "group," is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of Shares that, together with the Shares held by such "person" or "group," possess more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the Shares and other stock of the Company; (2) a majority of members of the Board is replaced during any 12 month period by directors whose appointment or election is not endorsed by a majority of the members of the Board prior to the date of the appointment or election; or (3) the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of this Plan to the contrary, it is intended that the foregoing definition of Change in Control qualify as a change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation, within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(5), and shall be interpreted and construed to effectuate such intent.
 
"Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
"Committee" shall mean a committee of the Board designated by the Board to be responsible for the administration of the Plan (though excluding day-to-day administration). To the extent deemed appropriate by the Board, the Committee shall be composed of not less than two individuals who are "outside directors" within the meaning of Code Section 162(m) and "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Section 16 and "independent directors" within the meaning of Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.
"Company" shall mean CONSOL Energy Inc.
"Deferred Stock Unit" means a right, granted to Eligible Directors in accordance with Section 10, to acquire a Share for no consideration or some other amount determined by the Board.
"Disability" shall mean, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement, a Participant's inability, because of physical or mental incapacity or injury (that has continued for a period of at least 12 consecutive calendar months), to perform for the Company or an Affiliate substantially the same services as he or she performed prior to incurring such incapacity or injury. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any Award that is subject to Section 409A (and not excepted therefrom) and payable upon Disability, such term shall mean the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.
"Effective Date" shall mean May 3, 2005.
"Eligible Director" means a director who is not an employee of the Company or any of its Affiliates.
"Employee" shall mean an employee or consultant of the Company or of any Affiliate, including any individual who enters into an employment agreement with the Company or an Affiliate which provides for commencement of employment within three months of the date of the agreement.
"Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Fair Market Value" shall mean the fair market value of the property or other items being valued, as determined by the Board in its sole discretion. Fair Market Value with respect to the Shares, as of any date, shall mean (i) if the Shares are listed on a securities exchange or are traded over the NASDAQ National Market System, the closing sales price of the Shares on such exchange or over such system on such date, or in the absence of reported sales on such date, the closing sales price on the immediately preceding date on which sales were reported, (ii) if the Shares are not so listed or traded, the mean between the bid and offered prices of the Shares as quoted by the National Association of Securities Dealers through NASDAQ for such date or (iii) in the event there is no public market for the Shares, the fair market value as determined by the Board in its sole discretion.
Full-Value Award" means any Award of Shares under this Plan or an Award payable in Shares, other than an Option or a Stock Appreciation Right.
"
 
"Grant Date" means, with respect to an Award, date on which the Board makes the determination to grant such Award, or such other date as is determined by the Board. Within a reasonable time thereafter, the Company will deliver an Award Agreement to the Participant.
"Incentive Stock Option" shall mean a right to purchase Shares from the Company that is granted under Section 5 of the Plan and that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision thereto.
"Non-Qualified Stock Option" shall mean a right to purchase Shares from the Company that is granted under Section 5 of the Plan and that is not intended to be an Incentive Stock Option.
"Option" shall mean an Incentive Stock Option or a Non-Qualified Stock Option and shall include a Restoration Option.
"Other Stock-Based Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 9 of the Plan.
"Participant" shall mean any Employee or Eligible Director who receives an Award under the Plan.
"Performance Award" shall mean any right granted under Section 8 of the Plan.
"Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, government or political subdivision thereof or other entity.
"Plan" shall mean this CONSOL Energy Inc. Equity Incentive Plan as amended and restated herein.
"Restoration Option" shall mean an Option granted pursuant to Section 5(e) of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock" shall mean any Share granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock Unit" shall mean any unit granted under Section 7 of the Plan.
"Retirement" shall mean with respect to a Participant other than an Eligible Director retirement of a Participant from the employ or service of the Company or any of its Affiliates in accordance with the terms of the applicable Company retirement plan or, if a Participant is not covered by any such plan, retirement on or after such Participant's 65th birthday, unless otherwise defined in the applicable Award Agreement.
"SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission or any successor thereto and shall include the staff thereof.
"Section 16" shall mean Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules promulgated thereunder and any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
"Section 162(m)" shall mean Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and the rules promulgated thereunder or any successor provision thereto as in effect from time to time.
"Section 409A" shall mean Section 409A of the Code, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder.
 
"Separation from Service" and "Separate from Service" shall mean the Participant's death, retirement or other termination of employment or service with the Company (including all persons treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code) that constitutes a "separation from service" (within the meaning of Section 409A). For purposes hereof, the determination of controlled group members shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears in Section 1563(a)(1),(2) and (3) of the Code and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2; provided, further, where legitimate business reasons exist (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(h)(3)), the language "at least 20 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears. Whether a Participant has Separated from Service will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances and, to the extent applicable to any Award or benefit, in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A. A Participant will be presumed to have experienced a Separation from Service when the level of services performed permanently decreases to a level less than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of services performed during the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period or such other applicable period as provided by Section 409A.
bona fide
bona fide
"Specified Employee" means a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Company as determined in accordance with the regulations issued under Code Section 409A and the procedures established by the Company.
"Shares" shall mean shares of the common stock, $.01 par value, of the Company, or such other securities of the Company as may be designated by the Board from time to time.
"Stock Appreciation Right" shall mean any right granted under Section 6 of the Plan.
"Substitute Awards" shall mean Awards granted in assumption of, or in substitution for, outstanding awards previously granted by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company combines.
 


