FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20090730082210.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release on July 30, 2009 announcing its 2009 second fiscal quarter results. A copy of the earnings release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in this Current Report and the exhibit hereto are being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purpose of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report and exhibit hereto shall not be incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
The response to Item 2.02 is incorporated herein by reference to this Item 7.01.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 30, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
For Immediate Release
Contact: Dan Zajdel at (724) 485-4169
PITTSBURGH (July 30, 2009)  CONSOL Energy Inc. (NYSE: CNX), a high-Btu bituminous coal and natural gas company, reported net income attributable to CONSOL Energy shareholders for the quarter ended June 30, 2009 of $113.3 million, or $0.62 per dilutive share. This is 12% higher than the net income attributable to CONSOL Energy shareholders of $101.0 million, or $0.54 per dilutive share, for the quarter ended June 30, 2008.
"2009 continues to be a tactical year for the company," said J. Brett Harvey, president and chief executive officer. "CONSOL Energy is reacting to ensure that coal production is in line with demand in a weakened economy. As a result, we've lowered our 2009 production guidance to 58 million tons. Our goal is to preserve per ton coal margins by not building inventory and controlling costs. Our financial strength, coupled with the completion of some existing efficiency projects, should ensure that CONSOL Energy will emerge as an even stronger competitor when the economy rebounds."
"At CNX Gas," Mr. Harvey continued, "we've raised production guidance from 87 Bcf to 89 Bcf, as results from our Marcellus Shale and coalbed methane programs continue to exceed expectations."
 
In millions of dollars except per share. Amounts for capital expenditures do not include amounts for equity affiliates.
 
 
Quarter-To-Quarter Discussion of Financial Results
Total Revenue and Other Income was $1,070.6 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, compared with $1,210.9 million for the June 2008 quarter, or a decrease of 12%. The decrease was due to lower gas pricing and lower coal sales, but was partially offset by coal customer contract buyouts that resulted in $14 million of (pre-tax) other income.
Net income attributable to CONSOL Energy shareholders and earnings per share were $113.3 million, or $0.62 per dilutive share, for the just ended quarter. This compares with $101.0 million, or $0.54 per dilutive share. The improvement was due to higher coal pricing and higher gas production.
CONSOL Energy had net cash from operating activities of $316.5 million for the June 2009 quarter, with $87.6 million attributable to CNX Gas. For CONSOL Energy, this compares to $323.9 million for the June 2008 quarter, or a decrease of 2%.
CONSOL Energy had total capital expenditures of $196.9 million in the June 2009 quarter, with $80.2 million attributable to CNX Gas. For both CONSOL Energy and CNX Gas, quarterly capital expenditures in the June 2009 quarter are lower than the March 2009 quarter, as expected, as some projects already underway move toward completion.
Liquidity
As of June 30, 2009, CONSOL Energy had $371.0 million of short-term debt and $461.5 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $100.7 million of cash and $360.8 million available to be borrowed under its $1.0 billion bank facility. As of June 30, 2009, CNX Gas Corporation had $81.0 million of short-term debt and $111.7 million in total liquidity, which is comprised of $7.6 million of cash and $104.1 million available to be borrowed under its $200.0 million bank facility.
 
Sales and production include CONSOL Energy's portion from equity affiliates and consolidated variable interest entities. Operating costs include items such as labor, supplies, power, preparation costs, project expenditures, subsidence costs, gas well plugging costs, charges for employee benefits (including Combined Fund premiums), royalties, as well as production and property taxes. Non-operating charges include items such as charges for long-term liabilities, direct administration, selling and general administration. Operating Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Operating Costs Per Ton. Financial Margins Per Ton are defined as Average Realized Price Per Ton less Total Costs Per Ton  Company Produced.
 
 
Quarter-to-Quarter Discussion of Coal Operations
Total coal sales were down in the June 2009 quarter, as the weak economy reduced coal burn at utilities and coal needs of steel companies.
"Because of the economy, CONSOL Energy is working with some of its customers to restructure shipments. We have long term relationships with our customers that we value highly, but we expect to capture the value for our shareholders in the contracts we have signed," continued Mr. Harvey.
Coal production was 14.4 million tons in the June 2009 quarter, down from 16.6 million tons in the year-earlier quarter. Mr. Harvey continued, "We will match our production with actual customer shipments, so we will not build inventory. When shipments rebound, so will our production."
Average realized price was $56.36 per ton, or 16% higher than in the year-earlier quarter, due mainly to contracts signed earlier in a stronger market.
Operating costs were $35.01 per ton, or 9% higher than in the year-earlier quarter. In general, operating costs per ton increased due to the reduced amount of tons produced from CONSOL Energy mines. Also, the longwall at Buchanan was idle throughout most of the quarter, while the continuous mining (CMs) equipment continued to operate. Tons mined from CMs are higher cost due to their labor and supply intensity. Labor costs also increased $0.66 per ton, partially due to labor contracts negotiated in 2007. Subsidence costs also increased by $0.94 per ton, primarily due to additional estimated Pennsylvania stream remediation requirements.
Total costs were $45.42 per ton, or 9% higher than in the year-earlier quarter, with most of the increase coming from operating costs. Operating margins were $21.35 per ton in the June 2009 quarter, an increase of 30% from $16.47 per ton, due to higher realized pricing per ton. Financial margins were $10.94 per ton, a 59% increase from the $6.90 per ton, also due to higher realized pricing.
Gas Operations
CNX Gas Corporation (NYSE: CXG), 83.3% of which is owned by CONSOL Energy, reported total net income attributable to CNX Gas shareholders of $33.0 million for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, compared with $64.3 million in the year earlier quarter. CNX Gas Corporation also issued its earnings release this morning. Additional information regarding CNX Gas Corporation financial and operating results for the quarter is available in its release and can be found in the investor section of its website:
http://www.cnxgas.com
Guidance
CONSOL Energy continues to expect to invest $1.0 billion in its coal and gas businesses during calendar year 2009. The company continues to monitor and evaluate capital spending to ensure adequate liquidity and to preserve options for possible external investment. The company is committed to completing capital projects in progress, including those that increase capacity and efficiency. CNX Gas expects to invest largely from cash flow generated from operating activities for 2009.
 
 
Note: Tons priced with ceilings and floors are not included in tons with firm pricing; they are additive. Although there is no assurance that customers with contracts will perform under these contracts, CONSOL Energy expects to capture the value of contracts through negotiated or legal means.
CONSOL Energy has revised its production target from 60 million tons to 58 million tons for calendar year 2009. For the third quarter of 2009, CONSOL Energy expects production to be approximately 13.1 million tons.
CNX Gas raised its previously announced production guidance of 87 to 89 Bcf for calendar year 2009.
Outlook Summary
The U.S. economy continued to contract in the second quarter driven by a decrease in industrial production in the manufacturing sector. This has led to a reduction in electricity generation, thereby negatively impacting demand and consumption of steam coal and natural gas. Milder weather this summer in most areas of the U.S. has further exacerbated the demand situation which has resulted in higher than normal coal stockpiles and gas storage levels across the country.
Steam Coal and Natural Gas Outlook
Many domestic coal companies have responded to the reduced coal demand by reducing production. Industry experts predict coal production will be reduced by at least 100 million tons in 2009. Mr. Harvey noted, "CONSOL Energy has a long history of being a disciplined producer. This year several other coal producers have also curtailed production due to market conditions. We believe that coal production cuts will continue into next year and that this should bode well for a sustained recovery in coal contract prices.
"In addition, natural gas producers have rapidly idled drilling rigs since the beginning of the economic downturn, with total active natural gas drilling rigs declining by more than 50 percent. Industry analysts expect gas rig counts to remain relatively flat for the remainder of 2009 and 2010.
Metallurgical Coal Outlook
"Capacity utilization at steel plants in the U.S. continues to improve following substantial inventory destocking efforts in late 2008 and early 2009. Steel plant capacity utilization in the U.S. has steadily increased since its low in December 2008. In addition, there are reports that nearly all metallurgical spot coal is sold out for 2009 due to preemptive buying by China since the beginning of the year and met coal production cutbacks." Mr. Harvey added, "Currently, the outlook is improving in the steel industry and we are cautiously optimistic regarding a recovery in metallurgical coal demand and pricing. We are seeing increased interest from South American and European steel producers who are methodically restarting previously idled blast furnaces and coking operations."
Mr. Harvey concluded, "Although there is still much uncertainty in the economy, certain leading economic indicators have shown improvement. We believe that as the overall economy improves, coal production cuts will have a profound impact on contract prices. Furthermore, our low-cost position in coal and gas should enable us to outperform our peers during this bottoming process."
 
CONSOL Energy Inc., a high-Btu bituminous coal and natural gas company, is a member of the Standard & Poor's 500 Equity Index and the Fortune 500. It has 16 bituminous coal mining complexes in six states and reports proven and probable coal reserves of 4.5 billion tons. It is also a majority owner of CNX Gas Corporation, a leading Appalachian gas producer, with proved reserves of over 1.4 trillion cubic feet. Additional information about CONSOL Energy can be found at its web site: .
www.consolenergy.com
EBIT is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income) and income taxes. EBITDA is defined as earnings (excluding cumulative effect of accounting change) before deducting net interest expense (interest expense less interest income), income taxes and depreciation, depletion and amortization. Although EBIT and EBITDA are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, management believes that it is useful to an investor in evaluating CONSOL Energy because it is widely used to evaluate a company's operating performance before debt expense and its cash flow. EBIT and EBITDA do not purport to represent cash generated by operating activities and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. In addition, because all companies do not calculate EBIT or EBITDA identically, the presentation here may not be comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies. Reconciliation of EBITDA and EBIT to the income statement is as follows:
Definition:
 
For purposes of this press release, references to "CONSOL Energy," the "company," "we," "our," or "us" or similar words (other than the legal names of companies) shall include CONSOL Energy Inc. and its respective subsidiaries.
Forward-Looking Statements
Various statements in this document, including those that express a belief, expectation, or intention, as well as those that are not statements of historical fact, are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995). The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects, our future production, revenues, income and capital spending. When we use the words "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "anticipate," "could," "would," "will," "estimate," "plan," "predict," "project," or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this document speak only as of the date of this document; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements unless required by securities law, and we caution you not to rely on them unduly. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and
 
assumptions about future events. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. These risks, uncertainties and contingencies include, but are not limited to: the deteriorating economic conditions; an extended decline in prices we receive for our coal and gas affecting our operating results and cash flows; reliance on customers honoring existing contracts, extending existing contracts or entering into new long-term contracts for coal; reliance on major customers; our inability to collect payments from customers if their creditworthiness declines; the disruption of rail, barge and other systems that deliver our coal; a loss of our competitive position because of the competitive nature of the coal industry and the gas industry, or a loss of our competitive position because of overcapacity in these industries impairing our profitability; our inability to hire qualified people to meet replacement or expansion needs; coal users switching to other fuels in order to comply with various environmental standards related to coal combustion; the inability to produce a sufficient amount of coal to fulfill our customers' requirements which could result in our customers initiating claims against us; foreign currency fluctuations could adversely affect the competitiveness of our coal abroad; the risks inherent in coal mining being subject to unexpected disruptions, including geological conditions, equipment failure, timing of completion of significant construction or repair of equipment, fires, accidents and weather conditions which could impact financial results; increases in the price of commodities used in our mining operations could impact our cost of production; obtaining governmental permits and approvals for our operations; the effects of proposals to regulate greenhouse gas emissions; the effects of government regulation; the effects of stringent federal and state employee health and safety regulations; the effects of mine closing, reclamation and certain other liabilities; the effects of subsidence from longwall mining operations on surface structures, water supplies, streams and surface land; uncertainties in estimating our economically recoverable coal and gas reserves; the outcomes of various legal proceedings, which proceedings are more fully described in our reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; increased exposure to employee related long-term liabilities; minimum funding requirements by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Pension Act) coupled with the significant investment and plan asset losses suffered during the current economic decline has exposed us to making additional required cash contributions to fund the pension benefit plans which we sponsor and the multi-employer pension benefit plans in which we participate; lump sum payments made to retiring salaried employees pursuant to our defined benefit pension plan; our ability to comply with laws or regulations requiring that we obtain surety bonds for workers' compensation and other statutory requirements; acquisitions that we recently have made or may make in the future including the accuracy of our assessment of the acquired businesses and their risks, achieving any anticipated synergies, integrating the acquisitions and unanticipated changes that could affect assumptions we may have made; the anti-takeover effects of our rights plan could prevent a change of control; risks in exploring for and producing gas; new gas development projects and exploration for gas in areas where we have little or no proven gas reserves; the disruption of pipeline systems which deliver our gas; the availability of field services, equipment and personnel for drilling and producing gas; replacing our natural gas reserves which if not replaced will cause our gas reserves and gas production to decline; costs associated with perfecting title for gas rights in some of our properties; location of a vast majority of our gas producing properties in three counties in southwestern Virginia, making us vulnerable to risks associated with having our gas production concentrated in one area; other persons could have ownership rights in our advanced gas extraction techniques which could force us to cease using those techniques or pay royalties; our ability to acquire water supplies needed for drilling, or our ability to dispose of water used or removed from strata at a reasonable cost and within applicable environmental rules; the coalbeds and other strata from which we produce methane gas frequently contain impurities that may hamper production; the enactment of Pennsylvania severance tax on natural gas may impact results of existing operations and impact the economic viability of exploiting new gas drilling and production opportunities in Pennsylvania; our hedging activities may prevent us from benefiting from price increases and may expose us to other risks; and other factors discussed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008 under "Risk Factors," as updated by any subsequent Form 10-Qs, which are on file at the Securities and Exchange Commission.
SPECIAL INCOME STATEMENT
2nd Qtr 2009
In Millions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


