FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20090911172008.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) Amendments to the CONSOL Energy Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan
On September 8, 2009, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of CONSOL Energy Inc. (the "Company") adopted amendments to the Company's Supplemental Retirement Plan (the "Plan") to, among other things, include certain employees of its majority-owned subsidiary, CNX Gas Corporation ("CNX Gas"), and to give service credit under the Plan for service with CNX Gas to all participants in the Plan who are or formerly were employees of CNX Gas, including Nicholas J. DeIuliis, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company and President of CNX Gas. The amendments to the Plan are consistent with the integration of CNX Gas' compensatory arrangements into Company programs as part of the management reorganization which occurred in January 2009.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by a copy of the Plan which is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
A summary description of other provisions of the Plan is set forth in the Company's 2009 proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(a) Amended and Restated Bylaws
On September 9, 2009, the Board adopted the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Company (the "Amended and Restated Bylaws"), effective immediately upon their adoption, to supersede and replace the existing bylaws of the Company. Section 2.9 of the bylaws was amended to provide that, among other things, any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" his or her election in an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board) shall, following certification of the election results, promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Chairman of the Board. The Nominating and Corporation Governance Committee (the "N&CG Committee") of the Board will consider any such tendered resignation as it deems appropriate and, within 75 days following the date on which the election occurred, will make a recommendation to the Board concerning the acceptance or rejection of such resignation. The Board will take formal action on the N&CG Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date on which the election occurred.
No director whose resignation is being considered by the Board shall participate in the N&CG Committee's deliberations or recommendation, or in the Board's deliberations or determination, with respect to accepting or rejecting such person's resignation as a director.
The above description is qualified in its entirety by the Amended and Restated Bylaws which are attached hereto as Exhibit 3.2 and incorporated herein by reference. Additionally, a copy of the Amended and Restated Bylaws, marked to show changes to the former bylaws, is also included as Exhibit 3.2.1 hereto.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 11, 2009
 

Exhibit 3.2
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Chairman of the Board") or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Notice of Meeting
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
 
September 9, 2009
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or in the Chairman of the Board's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman of the Board.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A)
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, including pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Clause (b) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (b) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:
(a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such Item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, (iii) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.8(C) of these Bylaws, and (iv) such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee;
(b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; and
 
September 9, 2009
(c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) (A) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Company, (D) any short interest in any security of the Company (for purposes of these Bylaws a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (iv) a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (v) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.8(C) of this Bylaw) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
 
September 9, 2009
(C) . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 2.8 of this Bylaw) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualifications of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation and (D) will abide by the requirements of Section 2.9 of these Bylaws.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
(D)
General.
(1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. .
Election of Directors; Director Resignation Policy; Required Vote for Other Matters
(A) General. Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
(B) . Any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" his or her election in an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board of Directors) shall, following certification of the election results, promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
Director Resignation Policy
The Nominating and Corporation Governance Committee (the "") will consider any such tendered resignation and, within 75 days following the date on which the election occurred, will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors concerning the acceptance or rejection of such resignation. In determining its recommendation to the Board of Directors, the Committee may consider all factors and other information it deems relevant, including, without limitation, (i) the stated reason or reasons why stockholders "withheld" votes from such director's election, (ii) the length of service and qualifications of such director, and (iii) such director's contributions to the Corporation.
Committee
The Committee may also consider possible alternatives regarding the director's tendered resignation as it deems appropriate, which may include, without limitation, rejection of the resignation coupled with a commitment to seek to address and cure the underlying reasons reasonably believed by the Committee to have resulted in such director failing to receive the required number of votes "for" such director's election.
 
September 9, 2009
The Board of Directors will take formal action on the Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date on which the election occurred. In considering the Committee's recommendation, the Board of Directors will consider all factors and other information it deems relevant, including, without limitation, the information, factors and alternatives considered by the Committee.
Following the Board of Directors' decision on the Committee's recommendation, the Corporation, within four business days after such decision is made, will publicly disclose, in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Directors' decision, together with an explanation of the Board of Directors' reason or reasons for rejecting or accepting the tendered resignation, and the process by which the decision was reached.
No director whose resignation is being considered by the Board of Directors shall participate in the Committee's deliberations or recommendation, or in the Board of Director's deliberations or determination, with respect to accepting or rejecting such person's resignation as a director. If a majority of the members of the Committee received a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election at the same election, then the independent directors who are on the Board of Directors who did not receive a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election (or who were not standing for election) will appoint a committee amongst themselves solely for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and will recommend to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject them. This Committee may, but need not, consist of all of the independent directors who did not receive a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election or who were not standing for election.
To the extent that one or more directors' resignations are accepted by the Board of Directors, the Committee will recommend to the Board of Directors whether to fill such vacancy or vacancies or to reduce the size of the Board of Directors.
This resignation policy will be summarized or included in each proxy statement relating to an election of directors of the Corporation.
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
Section 2.12. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent.
 
September 9, 2009
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
Section 3.8. . Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
 
September 9, 2009
Section 3.10. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board of Directors is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees of the Board:Executive Committee
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board of Directors. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board of Directors from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board of Directors or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Elected Officers
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
 
September 9, 2009
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors, the committees of the Board of Directors and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
 
September 9, 2009
Section 5.1. .
Stock Certificates and Transfers
(A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by shares of stock which may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law, and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe.
(B) Shares of the stock of the Corporation evidenced by certificate shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Shares of the stock of the Corporation which are uncertificated shall, upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto. It shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporation's books.
(C) Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall contain such information as required under Delaware law.
(D) Any certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 5.2. . With respect to any certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, upon production of evidence of loss, destruction or theft of a certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation, and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require, the Corporation may issue (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the Corporation.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.3. . The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
 
September 9, 2009
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was, at any time during which this Bylaw is in effect (whether or not such person continues to serve in such capacity at the time any indemnification or payment of expenses pursuant hereto is sought or at the time any proceeding relating thereto exists or is brought), a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right of appeal that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise. The rights conferred in this Bylaw shall be contract rights that vest at the time of such person's service to or at the request of the Corporation and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled
 
September 9, 2009
to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw (i) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise and (ii) cannot be terminated by the Corporation, the Board of Directors or the stockholders of the Corporation with respect to a person's service prior to the date of such termination. Any amendment, modification, alteration or repeal of this Bylaw that in any way diminishes, limits, restricts, adversely affects or eliminates any right of an indemnitee or his or her successors to indemnification, advancement of expenses or otherwise shall be prospective only and shall not in any way diminish, limit, restrict, adversely affect or eliminate any such right with respect to any actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission then or previously existing, or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
        (K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
September 9, 2009
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Contracts
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments
 
September 9, 2009

Exhibit 3.2.1
Section 1.1. . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, and the name and address of its registered agent is The Corporation Trust Company, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware.
Delaware Office
Section 1.2. . The Corporation may have such other offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.
Other Offices
Section 1.3. . The books and records of the Corporation may be kept at the Corporation's corporate headquarters or outside the State of Delaware at such other place or places as may from time to time be designated by the Board of Directors.
Books and Records
Section 2.1. . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held on such date and at such place and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Annual Meeting
Section 2.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the Corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation ("Preferred Stock") with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, special meetings of the stockholders may be called only by the Chairman of the Board of Directors ("Chairman of the Board") or by the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies (the "Whole Board").
Special Meeting
Section 2.3. . The Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or, if delegated by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President, as the case may be, may designate the place of meeting for any annual meeting or for any special meeting of the stockholders called by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board. If no designation is so made, the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation.
Place of Meeting
Section 2.4. . Written or printed notice, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered by the Corporation not less than 10 days nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, either personally or by mail or by such other means as may be permitted by law (including electronic communication), to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail with postage thereon prepaid, addressed to the stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present, or if notice is waived by those not present in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
Notice of Meeting
Section 2.5. . Except as otherwise provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Voting Stock"), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series of stock voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum of such class or series for the transaction of such business. The presiding officer of the meeting or a majority of the shares so represented may adjourn or postpone the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum. No notice of the time and place of adjourned or postponed meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly called meeting at which a quorum is present may continue to transact business until adjournment or postponement, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum; Adjournment and Postponement
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 2.6. . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy executed in writing (or in such manner prescribed by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware) by the stockholder, or by his or her duly authorized attorney in fact.
Voting by Proxy
Section 2.7. . The Chairman of the Board, or, at the direction of the Chairman of the Board or in the Chairman of the Board's absence, the President, shall preside at meetings of stockholders. The Secretary of the Corporation shall act as Secretary at all meetings of the stockholders, but, in the absence of the Secretary, the presiding officer may appoint a Secretary of the meeting. The order of business for such meetings shall be determined by the President with the approval of the Chairman of the Board.
Organization
Section 2.8. .
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
A) (1) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, including pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting, or (b) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who has complied with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Clause (b) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or submit other business (other than matters properly brought under Rule 14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and included in the Corporation's notice of meeting) before an annual meeting of stockholders.
(
Annual Meetings of Stockholders.
(2) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (b) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Bylaw, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and such other business must be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth:
(a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act, and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), (ii) a description of all direct and indirect compensation and other material monetary agreements, arrangements and understandings during the past three years, and any other material relationships, between or among such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made, and their respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the one hand, and each proposed nominee, and his or her respective affiliates and associates, or others acting in concert therewith, on the other hand, including, without limitation all information that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404 promulgated under Regulation S-K if the stockholder making the nomination and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made or any affiliate or associate thereof or person acting in concert therewith, were the "registrant" for purposes of such Item and the nominee were a director or executive officer of such registrant, (iii) with respect to each nominee for election or reelection to the Board of Directors, include a completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.8(C) of these Bylaws, and (iv) such other information as may reasonably be required by the Corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation or that could be material to a reasonable stockholder's understanding of the independence, or lack thereof, of such nominee;
(b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made and a description of all agreements, arrangements and understandings between such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, and any other person or persons (including their names) in connection with the proposal of such business by such stockholder; and
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
(c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) (A) the class and number of shares of the Corporation which are, directly or indirectly, owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (B) any option, warrant, convertible security, stock appreciation right, or similar right with an exercise or conversion privilege or a settlement payment or mechanism at a price related to any class or series of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class of shares of the Corporation or with a value derived in whole or in part from the value of any class or series of shares of the Corporation, whether or not such instrument or right shall be subject to settlement in the underlying class of capital stock of the Corporation or otherwise (a "Derivative Instrument") directly or indirectly owned beneficially by such stockholder and any other direct or indirect opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation, (C) any proxy, contract, arrangement, understanding, or relationship pursuant to which such stockholder has a right to vote any shares of any security of the Company, (D) any short interest in any security of the Company (for purposes of these Bylaws a person shall be deemed to have a short interest in a security if such person directly or indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise, has the opportunity to profit or share in any profit derived from any decrease in the value of the subject security), (E) any rights to dividends on the shares of the Corporation owned beneficially by such stockholder that are separated or separable from the underlying shares of the Corporation, (F) any proportionate interest in shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments held, directly or indirectly, by a general or limited partnership in which such stockholder is a general partner or, directly or indirectly, beneficially owns an interest in a general partner and (G) any performance-related fees (other than an asset-based fee) that such stockholder is entitled to based on any increase or decrease in the value of shares of the Corporation or Derivative Instruments, if any, as of the date of such notice, including without limitation any such interests held by members of such stockholder's immediate family sharing the same household (which information shall be supplemented by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, not later than 10 days after the record date for the meeting to disclose such ownership as of the record date), (iii) any other information relating to such stockholder and such beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a proxy statement or other filings required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for, as applicable, the proposal and/or for the election of directors in a contested election pursuant to Section 14 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, (iv) a representation that such owner intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (v) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (x) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (y) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination.
(3) Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased and there is no public announcement naming all of the nominees for director or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the Corporation at least 100 days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Bylaw shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
(B) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (a) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (b) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time of giving of notice provided for in this Bylaw, who shall be entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Bylaw. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be), for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Bylaw with respect to any nomination (including the completed and signed questionnaire, representation and agreement required by Section 2.8(C) of this Bylaw) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
Special Meetings of Stockholders.
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
(C) . To be eligible to be a nominee for election or reelection as a director of the Corporation, a person must deliver (in accordance with the time periods prescribed for delivery of notice under this Section 2.8 of this Bylaw) to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation a written questionnaire with respect to the background and qualifications of such person and the background of any other person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made (which questionnaire shall be provided by the Secretary upon written request) and a written representation and agreement (in the form provided by the Secretary upon written request) that such person (A) is not and will not become a party to (1) any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity as to how such person, if elected as a director of the Corporation, will act or vote on any issue or question (a "Voting Commitment") that has not been disclosed to the Corporation or (2) any Voting Commitment that could limit or interfere with such person's ability to comply, if elected as a director of the Corporation, with such person's fiduciary duties under applicable law, (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the Corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed therein, (C) in such person's individual capacity and on behalf of any person or entity on whose behalf the nomination is being made, would be in compliance, if elected as a director of the Corporation, and will comply with all applicable publicly disclosed corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines of the Corporation.
Submission of Questionnaire, Representation and Agreement
and
and (D) will abide by the requirements of Section 2.9 of these Bylaws
(D) (1) Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected at an annual meeting of stockholders or special meeting of stockholders, as applicable, to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or the Bylaws of the Corporation, the presiding officer of the meeting shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made, or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in compliance with this Bylaw, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded.
General.
(2) For purposes of this Bylaw, "public announcement" shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Bylaw, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Bylaw. Nothing in this Bylaw shall be deemed to affect any rights of (i) stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Section 2.9. .
Procedure for
Election of Directors; Director Resignation Policy; Required Vote for Other Matters
Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these Bylaws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and voting on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.
(A) General.
(B)
Director Resignation Policy. Any nominee for director who receives a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" his or her election in an uncontested election (i.e., an election where the only nominees are those recommended by the Board of Directors) shall, following certification of the election results, promptly tender his or her offer of resignation to the Chairman of the Board of Directors.
The Nominating and Corporation Governance Committee (the "Committee") will consider any such tendered resignation and, within 75 days following the date on which the election occurred, will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors concerning the acceptance or rejection of such resignation. In determining its recommendation to the Board of Directors, the Committee may consider all factors and other information it deems relevant, including, without limitation, (i) the stated reason or reasons why stockholders "withheld" votes from such director's election, (ii) the length of service and qualifications of such director, and (iii) such director's contributions to the Corporation.
The Committee may also consider possible alternatives regarding the director's tendered resignation as it deems appropriate, which may include, without limitation, rejection of the resignation coupled with a commitment to seek to address and cure the underlying reasons reasonably believed by the Committee to have resulted in such director failing to receive the required number of votes "for" such director's election.
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
The Board of Directors will take formal action on the Committee's recommendation no later than 90 days following the date on which the election occurred. In considering the Committee's recommendation, the Board of Directors will consider all factors and other information it deems relevant, including, without limitation, the information, factors and alternatives considered by the Committee.
Following the Board of Director
s' decision on the Committee's recommendation, the Corporation, within four business days after such decision is made, will publicly disclose, in a Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Director
s' decision, together with an explanation of the Board of Directors' reason or reasons for rejecting or accepting the tendered resignation, and the process by which the decision was reached.
No director whose resignation is being considered by the Board of Directors shall participate in the Committee's deliberations or recommendation, or in the Board of Director's deliberations or determination, with respect to accepting or rejecting such person's resignation as a director. If a majority of the members of the Committee received a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election at the same election, then the independent directors who are on the Board of Directors who did not receive a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election (or who were not standing for election) will appoint a committee amongst themselves solely for the purpose of considering the tendered resignations and will recommend to the Board of Directors whether to accept or reject them. This Committee may, but need not, consist of all of the independent directors who did not receive a greater number of votes "withheld" than "for" their election or who were not standing for election.
To the extent that one or more directors' resignations are accepted by the Board of Directors, the Committee will recommend to the Board of Directors whether to fill such vacancy or vacancies or to reduce the size of the Board of Directors.
This resignation policy will be summarized or included in each proxy statement relating to an election of directors of the Corporation.
Section 2.10. . The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the presiding officer of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The presiding officer of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting.
Inspectors of Elections; Opening and Closing the Polls
Section 2.11. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than 10 days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request the Board of Directors to fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within 10 days after the date on which such a request is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors within 10 days of the date on which such a request is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business or to any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to the Corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Record Date for Action by Written Consent
Section 2.12. In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by Section 2.11, to the Corporation of the requisite written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation or revocations, the Corporation shall engage nationally recognized independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of promptly performing a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent without a meeting shall be effective until such date as the independent inspectors certify to the Corporation that the consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with Section 2.11 represent at least the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to take the corporate action. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
Inspectors of Written Consent.
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 2.13. . Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within 60 days of the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with Section 2.11, a written consent or consents signed by a sufficient number of holders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in Section 2.11.
Effectiveness of Written Consent
Section 3.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
General Powers
Section 3.2. . Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board. Each director shall hold office until the next annual election of directors and until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
Number, Tenure and Term
Section 3.3. . A regular meeting of the Board of Directors shall be held without other notice than this Bylaw immediately after, and at the same place as, the annual meeting of stockholders. The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for the holding of additional regular meetings without other notice than such resolution.
Regular Meetings
Section 3.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the President or a majority of the Board of Directors then in office. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.
Special Meetings
Section 3.5. . Notice of any special meeting of directors shall be given to each director at such person's business or residence in writing by hand delivery, first-class or overnight mail or courier service, telegram, email or facsimile transmission, orally by telephone or any other lawful means. If mailed by first-class mail, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when deposited in the United States mails so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid, at least five (5) days before such meeting. If by telegram, overnight mail or courier service, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the telegram is delivered to the telegraph company or the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by email or facsimile transmission, such notice shall be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twelve (12) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twelve (12) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Bylaws, as provided under Section 8.1. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.4 of these Bylaws.
Notice
Section 3.6. . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee.
Action by Consent of Board of Directors
Section 3.7. . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings
Section 3.8. . Subject to Section 3.9, a whole number of directors equal to at least a majority of the Whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, but if at any meeting of the Board of Directors there shall be less than a quorum present, a majority of the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time without further notice. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors. The directors present at a duly organized meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum
Section 3.9. . Subject to applicable law and the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock with respect to such series of Preferred Stock, and unless the Board of Directors otherwise determines, vacancies resulting from death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or other cause, and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors, may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors, though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors, and directors so chosen shall hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are elected and until such director's successor shall have been duly elected and qualified. No decrease in the number of authorized directors constituting the Whole Board shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.
Vacancies
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 3.10. . The Board of Directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Whole Board, designate an Executive Committee to exercise, subject to applicable provisions of law, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation when the Board of Directors is not in session, including without limitation the power to declare dividends, to authorize the issuance of the Corporation's capital stock and to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and may, by resolution similarly adopted, designate an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee, a Finance Committee, a Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee, the powers of which are expressly provided for in this Bylaw, and one or more additional committees. Each committee shall consist of two or more directors of the Corporation. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of any member of such committee or committees, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not constituting a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Each committee shall keep written minutes of its proceedings and shall report such proceedings to the Board of Directors when required.
Committees of the Board:Executive Committee
Each committee shall create its own charter, which shall be reviewed by and approved at least annually by the Board of Directors. A majority of any committee may determine its action and fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board of Directors shall otherwise provide. Notice of such meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the manner provided for in Section 3.5 of these Bylaws. The Board of Directors shall have the power at any time to fill vacancies in, to change the membership of, or to dissolve any such committee. Nothing herein shall be deemed to prevent the Board of Directors from appointing one or more committees consisting in whole or in part of persons who are not directors of the Corporation; provided, however, that no such committee shall have or may exercise any authority of the Board of Directors.
Section 3.11. . The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation
Section 3.12. . The Board of Directors shall cause to be kept a record containing the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the stockholders, appropriate stock books and registers and such books of records and accounts as may be necessary for the proper conduct of the business of the Corporation.
Records
Section 4.1. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be a Chairman of the Board of Directors, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer, and such other officers as the Board of Directors from time to time may deem proper. The Chairman of the Board shall be chosen from among the directors. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this ARTICLE IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board of Directors or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman of the Board or President may appoint, such other officers (including a Treasurer, one or more Chief Operating Officers, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or Senior Vice Presidents and one or more Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Treasurers, and Assistant Controllers) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these Bylaws or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or such committee or by the Chairman of the Board or the President, as the case may be.
Elected Officers
Section 4.2. . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after the annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur.
Election and Term of Office
Section 4.3. . The Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders, subject to his or her appointment of the President, and shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his or her office which may be required by law and all such other duties as are properly required of him or her by the Board of Directors. He or she shall make reports to the Board of Directors and the stockholders, and shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors and of any committee thereof are carried into effect. The Chairman of the Board may also serve as President of the Corporation, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
Chairman of the Board
Section 4.4. . The President shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation and, subject to the Board of Directors, shall have general charge of the business and affairs of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned to the President by the Board of Directors. The President shall, in the absence of or because of the inability to act of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, perform all duties of the Chairman of the Board and preside at all meetings of stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The President may also serve as Chairman of the Board, if so elected by the Board of Directors.
President
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 4.5. . Each Chief Operating Officer shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Chief Operating Officer by the Board of Directors or the President.
Chief Operating Officer
Section 4.6. . Each Executive Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Executive Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Executive Vice President
Section 4.7. . Each Senior Vice President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be assigned to such Senior Vice President by the Board of Directors or the President.
Senior Vice President
Section 4.8. . The Chief Financial Officer shall:
Chief Financial Officer
(A) be responsible for the accounts and other financial records of the Corporation consistent with directions of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors assigned duties related thereto; be the custodian of the official corporate financial records;
(B) prescribe the Corporation's accounting practices and procedures in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) and the directions of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Board of Directors assigned duties related thereto;
(C) prepare, analyze and interpret the Corporation's financial results for use in the decision-making process; prepare and file external financial reports to satisfy shareholders, government regulatory bodies, financial institutions, and others;
(D) verify or cause to be verified the accuracy of all financial statements and accounting reports issued by the Corporation;
(E) oversee the investment of corporate funds; have primary contact with banks, investment bankers and investor groups to raise capital as directed by the Board of Directors or the President; and
(F) perform such other duties as may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Section 4.9. . Each Vice President shall have such powers and shall perform such duties as shall be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Vice Presidents
Section 4.10. . The Treasurer shall exercise general supervision over the receipt, custody and disbursement of corporate funds. The Treasurer shall cause the funds of the Corporation to be deposited in such banks as may be authorized by the Board of Directors, or in such banks as may be designated as depositaries in the manner provided by resolution of the Board of Directors. He or she shall have such further powers and duties and shall be subject to such directions as may be granted or imposed upon him or her from time to time by the Board of Directors or the President.
Treasurer
Section 4.11. . The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for that purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board of Directors, the committees of the Board of Directors and the stockholders; he or she shall see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws and as required by law; he or she shall be custodian of the records and the Seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the Seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation (unless the Seal of the Corporation on such certificates shall be a facsimile, as hereinafter provided) and affix and attest the Seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its Seal; and he or she shall see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and in general, he or she shall perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or the President.
Secretary
Section 4.12. . Any officer elected, or agent appointed, by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed from office at any time by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board whenever, in their judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served by such removal. Any officer or agent appointed by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President may be removed by the Chairman of the Board or the President whenever, in his or her judgment, the best interests of the Corporation would be served thereby, except that the Chairman of the Board, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, and the Secretary may only be removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Whole Board. No elected officer shall have any contractual rights against the Corporation for compensation by virtue of such election beyond the date of the election of his or her successor, his or her death, his or her resignation or his or her removal, whichever event shall first occur, except as otherwise provided in an employment contract or under an employee deferred compensation plan.
Removal
Section 4.13. . A newly created elected office and a vacancy in any elected office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the term at any meeting of the Board of Directors. Any vacancy in an office appointed by the Chairman of the Board or the President because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Chairman of the Board or the President.
Vacancies
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 5.1. .
Stock Certificates and Transfers
(A) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by shares of stock which may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Delaware law, and shall be entered in the books of the Corporation and registered as they are issued. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe.
(B) Shares of the stock of the Corporation evidenced by certificate shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation upon surrender for cancellation of certificates for at least the same number of shares, with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Shares of the stock of the Corporation which are uncertificated shall, upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, be cancelled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or certificated shares shall be made to the stockholder entitled thereto. It shall be the duty of the Corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the stockholder entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon the Corporation's books.
(C) Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice that shall contain such information as required under Delaware law.
(D) Any certificates of stock shall be signed, countersigned and registered in such manner as the Board of Directors may by resolution prescribe, which resolution may permit all or any of the signatures on such certificates to be in facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
Section 5.2. . With respect to any certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, upon production of evidence of loss, destruction or theft of a certificate for shares of stock in the Corporation, and upon delivery to the Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or any financial officer may in its or his or her discretion require, the Corporation may issue (i) a new certificate or certificates of stock or (ii) uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the Corporation.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates
Section 5.3. . The Board of Directors may fix in advance a date, not exceeding 60 days preceding the date of any meeting of stockholders and as otherwise required by law, or the date for the payment of any dividend or other distribution, or the date for the allotment of rights, or the date when any change or conversion or exchange of capital stock shall go into effect, as a record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, any such meeting, or entitled to receive payment of any such dividend or other distribution, or to any such allotment of rights, or to exercise the rights in respect of any such change, conversion or exchange of capital stock, and in such case, only such stockholders as shall be stockholders of record on the date so fixed shall be entitled to such notice of, and to vote at, such meeting, or to receive any such dividend or other distribution, or to receive such allotment or rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any stock on the books of the Corporation after such record date fixed as aforesaid.
Record Date of Stockholders
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall begin on the first day of January and end on the thirty-first day of December of each year.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay, dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and the Certificate of Incorporation.
Dividends
Section 6.3. . The Seal of the Corporation shall be circular in form, containing the words "CONSOL ENERGY INC." and "DELAWARE" on the circumference, surrounding the words "SEAL" and the date "1991." The Seal shall be in the custody of the Secretary.
Seal
Section 6.4. . Whenever any notice is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or special meeting of the stockholders or the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting.
Waiver of Notice
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 6.5. . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant selected by the Audit Committee, and it shall be the duty of the Board of Directors to cause such audit to be done annually.
Audits
Section 6.6. . Any director or any officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, and such resignation shall be deemed to be effective as of the close of business on the date said notice is received by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Secretary, or at such later time as is specified therein. No formal action shall be required of the Board of Directors or the stockholders to make any such resignation effective.
Resignations
Section 6.7. .
Indemnification and Insurance
(A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was, at any time during which this Bylaw is in effect (whether or not such person continues to serve in such capacity at the time any indemnification or payment of expenses pursuant hereto is sought or at the time any proceeding relating thereto exists or is brought), a director or officer of the Corporation or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation, whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided, however, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this Bylaw, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this Bylaw shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; provided, however, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right of appeal that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this Bylaw or otherwise. The rights conferred in this Bylaw shall be contract rights that vest at the time of such person's service to or at the request of the Corporation and such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, trustee, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee's heirs, executors and administrators.
(B) To obtain indemnification under this Bylaw, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if a quorum of the Board of Directors consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iii) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board of Directors unless there shall have occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" as defined in the Change of Control Severance Agreements of the Corporation, in which case the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the claimant unless the claimant shall request that such selection be made by the Board of Directors. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination.
(C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this Bylaw is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by the Corporation (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
(D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this Bylaw that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw.
(E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this Bylaw that the procedures and presumptions of this Bylaw are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this Bylaw.
(F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Bylaw (i) shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise and (ii) cannot be terminated by the Corporation, the Board of Directors or the stockholders of the Corporation with respect to a person's service prior to the date of such termination. Any amendment, modification, alteration or repeal of this Bylaw that in any way diminishes, limits, restricts, adversely affects or eliminates any right of an indemnitee or his or her successors to indemnification, advancement of expenses or otherwise shall be prospective only and shall not in any way diminish, limit, restrict, adversely affect or eliminate any such right with respect to any actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission then or previously existing, or any action, suit or proceeding previously or thereafter brought or threatened based in whole or in part upon any such actual or alleged state of facts, occurrence, action or omission.
(G) The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (H) of this Bylaw, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, employee or agent.
(H) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
(I) If any provision or provisions of this Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
(J) For purposes of this Bylaw:
(1) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
(2) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Bylaw.
(K) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary.
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9
Section 7.1. . Except as otherwise required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. The Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President (including any Executive Vice President or Senior Vice President) may execute bonds, contracts, deeds, leases and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors or the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President of the Corporation may delegate contractual powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such delegated power.
Contracts
Section 7.2. . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or any Vice President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of such other corporation, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such votes or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he or she may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
Proxies
Section 8.1. . These Bylaws may be altered, amended, or repealed at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of the stockholders, provided notice of the proposed change was given in the notice of the meeting and, in the case of a meeting of the Board of Directors, in a notice given not less than two days prior to the meeting.
Amendments
 
, 2009
Effective June 17
September 9

Exhibit 10.1
1.1 Establishment and Purpose
Effective January 1, 2007, CONSOL Energy Inc. established the CONSOL Energy Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan (the "Plan") on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth. The Plan is designed primarily for the purpose of providing benefits for a select group of management and highly compensated employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and is intended to qualify as a "top hat" plan under Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). The Plan is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.
This Plan document reflects all amendments made through September 8, 2009.
1.2 Definitions
means the actuarial present value of a specified benefit as determined on an applicable date using the mortality, interest rate and other assumptions as defined in the Qualified Plan.
"Actuarial Equivalent"
means annual base salary plus amounts received under the Company's Short Term Incentive Compensation Plan, the CNX Gas Corporation Short-Term Incentive Compensation Plan or any executive Short Term Incentive Plan (as and if applicable). All other forms of remuneration are excluded, including but not limited to all long-term incentive compensation, bonuses, fringe benefits and stock-based awards.
"Annual Compensation"
means the person or persons designated by a Participant as his beneficiary hereunder in accordance with the provisions of Article V.
"Beneficiary"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
means (i) a charge, indictment or conviction of, or a plea of guilty or to, a misdemeanor involving moral turpitude or a felony, whether or not in connection with the performance by a Participant of his or her duties or obligations to the Company or any Subsidiary; (ii) theft relating to the business of the Company or any Subsidiary or dishonesty with respect to a material aspect of the business of the Company or any Subsidiary; (iii) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of the Participant's duties or obligations to the Company or any Subsidiary, or engaging in illegal activity in connection therewith, including, without limitation, a Participant's engagement in any act or course of conduct that would result in the termination or revocation of, or jeopardize the renewal of, any licenses, permits, consents, authorization, approvals or material agreements necessary for the Company or any Subsidiary to conduct its business or that would have an adverse effect on the Company or any Subsidiary; (iv) violation of any provision of any nonsolicitation, noncompetition or nondisclosure contained in any agreement entered into by and between a Participant and the Company and/or any Subsidiary; or (v) "cause" as defined in the Participant's employment and/or change of control agreement, if any, with the Company or any Subsidiary. The determination as to whether or not Cause exists will be made by the Retirement Board and the CEO of the Company ("CEO") in accordance with its discretionary powers under Section 1.3; provided, however, that the Board shall make the determination as to whether or not Cause exists with respect to the CEO. The Retirement Board and the CEO shall periodically report to the Board as to its determinations, if any, with respect to determinations of Cause.
"Cause"
nolo contendere
 
means the occurrence of any of the following events:
"Change in Control"
(i) the acquisition after the date hereof by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of more than 35% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting stock of the Company; provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change in Control: (A) any issuance of voting stock of the Company directly from the Company that is approved by the Incumbent Board (as defined in subsection (ii), below), (B) any acquisition by the Company of voting stock of the Company, (C) any acquisition of voting stock of the Company by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any Subsidiary, (D) any acquisition of voting stock of the Company by an underwriter holding securities of the Company in connection with a public offering thereof, or (E) any acquisition of voting stock of the Company by any Person pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii), below; or
(ii) individuals who constitute the Board as of the Effective Date (the "Incumbent Board," as modified by this subsection (ii)), cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a Director subsequent to such date whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then comprising the Incumbent Board (either by a specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such person is named as a nominee for director, without objection to such nomination) will be deemed to have then been a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or
(iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of the Company or a direct or indirect wholly owned subsidiary thereof, a sale or other disposition (whether by sale, taxable or nontaxable exchange, formation of a joint venture or otherwise) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company, or other transaction involving the Company (each, a "Business Combination"), unless, in each case, immediately following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of voting stock of the Company immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination or any direct or indirect parent corporation thereof (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries), (B) no Person other than the Company beneficially owns 25% or more of the combined voting power of the then outstanding shares of voting stock of the entity resulting from such Business Combination or any direct or indirect parent corporation thereof (disregarding all "acquisitions" described in clauses (A) - (C) of subsection (i)), and (C) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the entity resulting from such Business Combination or any direct or indirect parent corporation thereof were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board providing for such Business Combination; or (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company, except pursuant to a Business Combination that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, it is intended that the forgoing definition of Change in Control qualify as a change in the ownership or effective control of a corporation, or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of a corporation, within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-3(i)(5), and this Agreement shall be interpreted and construed to effectuate such intent.
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any successor code or law.
"Code"
means the Compensation Committee of the Board, or such other committee designated by the Board to discharge the duties of the Committee hereunder.
"Committee"
means CONSOL Energy Inc. or any successor thereto.
"Company"
means a Participant: (1) is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; or (2) is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan of the Company or its Subsidiaries.
"Disability"
means, subject to Section 1.4(c), the average of a Participant's five highest consecutive Annual Compensation amounts while employed by the Company and its Subsidiaries.
"Final Average Compensation"
means the date such Participant attains age sixty five (65).
"Normal Retirement Date"
means any employee who has satisfied the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 1.4 of the Plan.
"Participant"
means any individual, corporation, joint venture, association, joint stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
"
Person
"
means the twelve-month period beginning each January 1 and ending on the following December 31.
"Plan Year"
means CONSOL Energy Inc. Employee Retirement Plan, as amended, the CNX Gas Corporation Employee Retirement Plan and/or such other plan(s) as designated by the Retirement Board.
"Qualified Plan"
shall mean Section 409A of the Code, the regulations and other binding guidance promulgated thereunder.
"Section 409A"
shall mean a Participant's death, retirement or other termination of employment with the Company and all of its controlled group members within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code. For purposes hereof, the determination of controlled group members shall be made pursuant to the provisions of Section 414(b) and 414(c) of the Code; provided that the language "at least 50 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears in Section 1563(a)(1),(2) and (3) of the Code and Treas. Reg.  1.414(c)-2; provided, further, where legitimate business reasons exist (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.  1.409A-1(h)(3)), the language "at least 20 percent" shall be used instead of "at least 80 percent" in each place it appears. Whether a Participant has a Separation from Service will be determined based on all of the facts and circumstances and in accordance with the guidance issued under Section 409A.
"Separation From Service"
 
means the fraction determined hereunder with a numerator that is the Participant's number of full Years of Service and with a denominator of 20. The Service Fraction can never exceed one (1).
"Service Fraction"
means a key employee (as defined in Section 416(i) of the Code without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) of the Company and its Subsidiaries, as defined in the regulations issued under Code Section 409A, as determined in accordance with the procedures established by the Company.
"Specified Employee"
means, unless specifically excluded by the Committee, any entity in which the Company owns or otherwise controls, directly or indirectly, stock or other ownership interests having the voting power to elect a majority of the board of directors, or other governing group having functions similar to a board of directors, as determined by the Committee. For purposes of this Plan, CNX Gas Corporation or any of its subsidiaries shall be considered to be a "Subsidiary" as follows: (i) if a Participant is employed by the Company or CNX Gas Corporation on or after September 8, 2009, CNX Gas Corporation shall be a "Subsidiary" with respect to such Participant for all purposes under this Plan, such that, for example, the Participant's Annual Compensation and Years of Service will service with CNX Gas Corporation both before and after said September 8, 2009 date; and (ii) if a Participant was not employed by the Company or CNX Gas Corporation on or after September 8, 2009, CNX Gas Corporation shall not be a "Subsidiary" with respect to such Participant for all purposes under this Plan, such that, for example, the Participant's Annual Compensation and Years of Service will all service with CNX Gas Corporation. An entity shall be considered to be a "Subsidiary" only for the period of time in which the ownership test and the Committee approval set forth above have been met.
"Subsidiary"
include
exclude
means, subject to Section 1.4(c), each full twelve-month period of active, full-time employment with the Company following the Participant's most recent hire date, as determined pursuant to the Company's regular personnel records and policies. The Committee may, but is not required to, recognize employment with prior employers for purposes of this Plan. Any such recognition shall be in writing and shall state the purposes for which service will be recognized under this Plan. In addition, the Plan will (i) recognize service for periods of prior employment with the Company; (ii) recognize periods of service with CNX Gas Corporation in accordance with the rules set forth in the definition of Subsidiary for CNX Gas Corporation; and (iii) recognize periods of employment with any other Subsidiary, but only for periods of time while that entity meets the definition of Subsidiary (e.g. is owned by the Company).
"Year of Service"
1.3 Administration.
(a) The Retirement Board as defined in Section 1.17 of the Qualified Plan (the "Retirement Board") (and the Committee, where the Committee exercises powers hereunder, or the CEO with respects to determinations of Cause as specified herein) shall administer the Plan and have sole and absolute authority and discretion to decide all matters relating to the administration of the Plan, including, without limitation: determining the rights and status of Participants or their beneficiaries under the Plan; interpreting the Plan; adopting administrative rules, regulations, and guidelines for the Plan; making factual determinations (including determinations as to the designation of beneficiaries); and correcting any defect, supplying any omission or reconciling any inconsistency or conflict in the Plan. In general, the Retirement Board will utilize and follow the administrative rules and practices that are utilized under the Qualified Plan. The Retirement Board's determinations under the Plan (and the Committee's determinations under the Plan where the Committee exercises powers hereunder) need not be uniform among all Participants, or classes or categories of Participants, and may be applied to such Participants, or classes or categories of Participants, as the Retirement Board (or the Committee, where applicable), in its sole and absolute discretion, considers necessary, appropriate or desirable. All determinations by the Retirement Board (and the Committee, where applicable) shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Company, the Participant and any and all interested parties.
 
(b) The Retirement Board (and the Committee, where applicable) may delegate such of its powers and authority under the Plan to the Company's officers as it deems necessary or appropriate. In the event of such delegation, all references to the Retirement Board in this Plan (and the Committee, where applicable) shall be deemed references to such officers as it relates to those aspects of the Plan that have been delegated.
(c) Any action taken by the Retirement Board (and the Committee, where applicable) with respect to the rights or benefits under the Plan of any Participant shall be revocable by the Retirement Board (and the Committee, where applicable) as to payments not yet made to such person, and acceptance of any deferred compensation benefits under the Plan constitutes acceptance of and agreement to the Retirement Board's (or the Committee, where applicable) or the Company's making any appropriate adjustments in future payments to such person (or to recover from such person) any excess payment or underpayment previously made to him.
(d) The provisions of the Plan shall be administered, interpreted and construed in a manner intended to comply with Section 409A or an exception thereto (or disregarded to the extent such provision cannot be so administered, interpreted or construed). It is intended that distribution events authorized under the Plan qualify as permissible distribution events for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, and the Plan shall be interpreted and construed accordingly in order to comply with Section 409A. The Company reserves the right to accelerate, delay or modify distributions to the extent permitted under Section 409A. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in no event shall the Committee or Retirement Board (or any member thereof), or the Company, its Subsidiaries or affiliates (or the employees, officers or directors of the Company, its Subsidiaries or affiliates) have any liability to any Participant (or any other person) due to the failure of the Plan to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A or any other applicable law.
1.4 Eligibility and Participation.
(a) Participation in the Plan is limited to officers and key management employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries who are designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan and who are within the category of a select group of management and highly compensated employees as referred to in Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"). Until changed by the Committee, only employees of the Company (and those Subsidiaries which are not specifically excluded for participation in the Plan by the Committee or the terms of the Plan) with a salary grade of 104 or above are eligible to participate hereunder. The Plan is being implemented in connection with the ceasing of accruals under prior non-qualified plans.
(b) A Participant shall cease to be a Participant upon receiving payment for the full amount of benefits to which the Participant is entitled under the Plan.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may terminate a Participant's participation in the Plan at any time, in its sole and absolute discretion. A termination of Participant's employment with the Company and any Subsidiary, or if the Participant no longer meets the basic eligibility standards (such as salary grade) shall automatically, with no further act on the part of the Committee, Company, Retirement Board, or any Subsidiary, terminate any right of such Participant to continue to participate in, and accrue benefits under, this Plan. When the Participant terminates or no longer meets the basic eligibility standards, Final Average Compensation and Years of Service will be fixed at that time. Appendix A, entitled Retirement Scenarios Under the SERP, contains examples that illustrate these principles. Appendix A is explicitly made a part of this Plan.
(d) In the event of a Change in Control, additional service credits will be provided for the term of any payments under a Participant's change of control agreement, if any, with the Company.
 
(e) A Subsidiary may affirmatively elect to not participate in this Plan. In addition, as set forth in subsection (b) above, the participation of the Subsidiary may also be prohibited or nullified by the Committee. Should a Subsidiary participate in this Plan, Annual Compensation and Years of Service shall be calculated : (i) in accordance with the definition of Subsidiary for CNX Gas Corporation; and (ii) by excluding compensation earned and periods of service with any other Subsidiary while the entity did not meet the definition of Subsidiary hereunder. For example, if the Company acquires another entity, the eligible employees of that entity will receive no service credits for the time spent with the entity prior to the acquisition, nor will the employees' compensation history be relevant.
2.1 Amount of Benefit.
The amount of each Participant's benefit as of age 65 (expressed as an annual amount) will be 50% of Final Average Compensation, multiplied by the Service Fraction, as calculated on the Participant's date of Separation From Service.
2.2 Reduction.
The age 65 benefit determined under Section 2.1 will be reduced (offset) by the Participant's vested benefits (including benefits which have been paid or are payable in the future, converted to an annual amount) under: (a) the age 65 Qualified Plan benefit; (b) the age 65 Retirement Restoration Plan of CONSOL Energy Inc. benefit; and (c) any other plan or arrangement providing retirement type benefits, including arrangements with prior employers, to the extent service with such other employer or under such arrangement is credited under this Plan.
2.3 Vesting.
No benefit will be vested until a Participant has five Years of Service, and the Participant has satisfied the eligibility standards hereof during these five Years of Service. Any benefits accrued prior to such vesting are subject to forfeiture in the event the Participant ceases to be an employee or eligible to participate in the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, benefits will immediately vest upon the death or Disability of the Participant, or upon a Change in Control.
2.4 Cause.
(a) Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, if a Participant's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary terminates on account of Cause (which includes voluntary resignation in lieu of involuntary termination on account of Cause or if Cause otherwise exists by reason of a violation of Subsection (iv) of the definition of Cause), no benefits will be payable hereunder. All benefits of any nature, whether vested or unvested, shall be forfeited without payment by the Plan, the Company or any Subsidiary and the Participant shall have no further rights under the Plan.
(b) In addition to the rights set forth in section 2.4(a), and in addition to any other rights at law or in equity, if a Participant's employment with the Company or any Subsidiary terminates on account of Cause (which includes voluntary resignation in lieu of involuntary termination on account of Cause or if Cause otherwise exists by reason of a violation of Subsection (ii) or (iv) of the definition of Cause), each Participant
 
agrees to the following by agreeing to participate in this Program. Each Participant agrees that within ten (10) days after the date the Company provides such Participant of a notice that there has occurred a termination on account of Cause (which includes voluntary resignation in lieu of involuntary termination on account of Cause or if Cause otherwise exists by reason of a violation of Subsection (ii) or (iv) of the definition of Cause), a Participant shall pay to the Company in cash an amount equal to any and all distributions paid to or on behalf of such Participant under this Plan within the six (6) months prior to the date of earliest breach. Each Participant agrees that failure to make such timely payment to the Company constitutes an independent and material breach of the terms and conditions of this Plan, for which the Company may seek recovery of the unpaid amount as liquidated damages, in addition to all other rights and remedies the Company may have resulting from a determination that Cause exists. The Participants agree that timely payment to the Company, as set forth in this provision of the Plan, is reasonable and necessary because the compensatory damages that will result from a Cause determination cannot readily be ascertained. Further, the Participants agree that timely payment to the Company as set forth in this provision of the Plan is not a penalty, and it does not preclude the Company from seeking all other remedies that may be available to the Company, including without limitation those set forth in this Section 2.4 and in any employment or other agreement between the Participant and the Company.
(c) For purposes of this section 2.4, a forfeiture of benefits under subsection (a) will occur and the rights under subsection (b) will also arise if Cause (but only as defined in subsections (ii) or (iv) of the Cause definition) arises or is discovered following a termination of employment, regardless of the reason for such termination.
3.1 Distribution Dates.
(a) Benefits shall be paid in the form of a life annuity with a guaranteed term of twenty years (which shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of a single life annuity) commencing in the month immediately following the later to occur of: (i) the end of the month following the month in which Participant turns age 50, or (ii) the end of the month following the month in which Participant incurs a Separation From Service. The benefit will be actuarially reduced, as necessary (using assumptions specified in the Qualified Plan), from the Participant's Normal Retirement Date in the event benefits commence earlier than that date. Benefits shall be paid in monthly installments, with each subsequent distribution being made on each succeeding monthly anniversary of the initial distribution.
(b) A Participant may designate a Beneficiary as provided under Article V hereunder. The Beneficiary will be eligible to receive the balance of the guaranteed twenty year payments that the Participant does not receive on account of the death of the Participant. Said balance shall be paid in the same monthly amount, and at the same time and manner as the Participant was receiving prior to his or her death for the remainder of the twenty year term.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing or any Plan provision to the contrary, distributions to Specified Employees upon Separation From Service shall not be made before the date that is 6 months after the date of Separation From Service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). Any benefits payable to a Specified Employee prior to such date will be accumulated and paid with the initial distribution. The initial distribution shall be paid in the month following the month containing the 6-month anniversary of the date of Separation from Service, and subsequent distributions shall be made on each succeeding monthly anniversary of the initial distribution.
 
3.2 Change in Control.
In the event a Participant's Separates from Service after, or in connection with, a Change in Control, on account of (i) an involuntary termination associated with a Change in Control within the two year period after the Change in Control, or (ii) a termination by the Company other than for Cause or due to the Participant's death or Disability that (A) occurs not more than three (3) months prior to the date on which a Change in Control occurs, or (B) is requested by a third party who initiates a Change in Control, the Participant shall be entitled to the vested benefits provided in Article II. For purposes of subsection (B) above, to be eligible to receive amounts described in Article II, a Change in Control must be consummated within the twelve (12) month period following the Participant's Separation From Service, except in circumstances pursuant to which the consummation of the Change in Control is delayed, through no failure of the Company or the third person, by a governmental or regulatory authority or agency with jurisdiction over the matter, or as a result of other similar circumstances. In such a circumstance, the remainder of the twelve (12) month period shall be tolled and shall recommence upon termination of the delaying event.
Notwithstanding the provisions in Section 3.1, a Participant will receive a lump sum payment of the Participant's accrued and vested benefits calculated in accordance with Article II. Such payment will be paid in a lump sum: (i) contemporaneously with the Change in Control if the Participant Separates from Service prior to the Change in Control date, or (ii) on the Participant's Separation From Service, if the separation takes place following the Change in Control date. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any Plan provision to the contrary, a distribution to a Specified Employee shall not be made before the date that is 6 months after the date of Separation From Service (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Participant). Any distribution payable to a Specified Employee that is delayed shall be paid in the month following the month containing the 6-month anniversary of the date of Separation from Service. Such benefit will be calculated as if the Participant terminated on the Change in Control date, and the benefit will be reduced, as necessary, based on the early retirement reduction Schedule III from the Qualified Plan, calculated as if the Participant had a minimum of 75 points.
3.3 Death or Disability.
In the event of a Participant's death prior to commencement of benefits in accordance with Section 3.1 or 3.2, the Participant's vested benefits calculated under Article II will be paid to the Participant's Beneficiary for the guaranteed twenty year term (which shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of a single life annuity), commencing within 60 days following the Participant's death (regardless of whether the Participant obtained age 50 or the Participant's Normal Retirement Date). The benefit will be determined as if the Participant had separated from service immediately prior to his death, meaning that, for example, the Age 65 benefits under the Qualified Plan and the Restoration Plan will be offset, even though there might be no death benefits under one or both of those plans.
In the event of a Participant Separates from Service on account of Disability prior to commencement of benefits in accordance with Section 3.1 or 3.2, the value of the Participant's benefits calculated under Article II will be paid to the Participant in the life annuity form with the guaranteed twenty year term (which shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of a single life annuity), commencing within 60 days following the Participant Separation from Service, except as otherwise provided under Section 3.1(c).
 
4.1 Unsecured Obligation of Company.
(a) Any benefit payable pursuant to this Plan shall be paid from the general assets of the Company or a Subsidiary. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create a trust of any kind or a fiduciary relationship between any Participant (or any other interested person) and the Company, a Subsidiary or the Committee, or require the Company or a Subsidiary to maintain or set aside any specific funds for the purpose of paying any benefit hereunder. To the extent that a Participant or any other person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company or a Subsidiary under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company or a Subsidiary.
(b) If the Company or a Subsidiary maintains a separate fund or makes specific investments, including the purchase of insurance insuring the life of the a Participant, to assure its ability to pay any benefits due under this Plan, neither the Participant nor the Participant's Beneficiary shall have any legal or equitable ownership interest in, or lien on, such fund, policy, investment or any other asset of the Company or a Subsidiary. The Company and each Subsidiary in its sole discretion, may determine the exact nature and method of informal funding (if any) of the obligations under this Plan. If the Company or a Subsidiary elects to maintain a separate fund or makes specific investments to fund its obligations under this Plan, the Company and each Subsidiary reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to terminate such method of funding at any time, in whole or in part.
5.1 Beneficiary Designations.
A designation of a Beneficiary hereunder may be made only by a written instrument (in form acceptable to the Retirement Board) signed by the Participant and filed with the Retirement Board prior to the Participant's death. In the absence of such a designation and at any other time when there is no existing Beneficiary designated hereunder, the unpaid value of the Participant's benefits to which a Beneficiary was entitled shall be distributed to the Participant's estate. A Beneficiary who dies or which ceases to exist shall not be entitled to any part of any payment thereafter to be made to the Participant's Beneficiary unless the Participant's designation specifically provides to the contrary.If two or more persons designated as a Participant's Beneficiary are in existence, the amount of any payment to the Beneficiary under this Plan shall be divided equally among such persons, unless the Participant's designation specifically provides to the contrary. Designation of a Beneficiary is subject to further restrictions imposed by the Retirement Board for administrative convenience.
5.2 Change in Beneficiary.
A Participant may, at any time and from time to time, change a Beneficiary designation hereunder without the consent of any existing Beneficiary or any other person. Any change in Beneficiary shall be made only by an instrument (in form acceptable to the Retirement Board) signed by the Participant, and any change shall be effective only if signed by the Participant and received by the Retirement Board prior to the death of the Participant.
 
6.1 Claims for Benefits.
The Retirement Board shall determine the rights of any Participant to any benefits hereunder. Any Participant who believes that he has not received the benefits to which he is entitled under the Plan may file a claim in writing with the Retirement Board. The Retirement Board shall, no later than 90 days after the receipt of a claim (plus an additional period of 90 days if required for processing, provided that notice of the extension of time is given to the claimant within the first 90-day period), either allow or deny the claim in writing. If a claimant does not receive written notice of the Retirement Board's decision on his or her claim within the above-mentioned period, the claim shall be deemed to have been denied in full.
A denial of a claim by the Retirement Board, wholly or partially, shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include:
(a) the specific reasons for the denial;
(b) specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions on which the denial is based;
(c) a description of any additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; and
(d) an explanation of the claim review procedure and the time limits applicable to such procedures, including a statement of the claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
6.2 Appeal Provisions.
A claimant whose claim is denied (or his duly authorized representative) may within 60 days after receipt of denial of a claim file with the Retirement Board a written request for a review of such claim. If the claimant does not file a request for review of his claim within such 60-day period, the claimant shall be deemed to have acquiesced in the original decision of the Retirement Board on his claim, the decision shall become final and the claimant will not be entitled to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA. If such an appeal is so filed within such 60-day period, the Company (or its delegate) shall conduct a full and fair review of such claim. During such review, the claimant (or the claimant's authorized representative) shall be given the opportunity to review all documents that are pertinent to his claim and to submit issues and comments in writing.
The Company shall mail or deliver to the claimant a written decision on the matter based on the facts and the pertinent provisions of the Plan within 60 days after the receipt of the request for review (unless special circumstances require an extension of up to 60 additional days, in which case written notice of such extension shall be given to the claimant prior to the commencement of such extension). Such decision shall be written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, shall state the specific reasons for the decision and the specific Plan provisions on which the decision was based and shall, to the extent permitted by law, be final and binding on all interested persons. If the decision on review is not furnished to the claimant within the above-mentioned time period, the claim shall be deemed to have been denied on review.
 
6.3 Further Proceedings
If a Participant's claim for benefits is denied in whole or in part, such Participant may file suit only in a state or federal court located in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania.
Notwithstanding, before such Participant may file suit in a state or federal court, Participant exhaust the Plan's administrative claims procedures. If any such judicial or administrative proceeding is undertaken, the evidence presented will be strictly limited to the evidence timely presented to the Plan Administrator and the Company. In addition, any such judicial or administrative proceeding must be filed within 6 months after the Company's final decision under section 6.2.
must
7.1 Withholding.
The Company and each Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold from any benefits payable under the Plan or other wages payable to a Participant an amount sufficient to satisfy all federal, state and local tax withholding requirements, if any, arising from or in connection with the Participant's receipt or vesting of benefits under the Plan.
7.2 No Guarantee of Employment.
Nothing in this Plan shall be construed as guaranteeing future employment to any Participant. Without limiting the generality of the preceding sentence, except as otherwise set forth in a written agreement, a Participant continues to be an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary, as applicable, solely at the will of the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, subject to discharge at any time, with or without cause. The benefits provided for herein for a Participant shall not be deemed to modify, affect or limit any salary or salary increases, bonuses, profit sharing or any other type of compensation of a Participant in any manner whatsoever. Nothing contained in this Plan shall affect the right of a Participant to participate in or be covered by or under any qualified or nonqualified pension, profit sharing, group, bonus or other supplemental compensation, retirement or fringe benefit Plan constituting any part of the Company's or applicable Subsidiary's compensation structure whether now or hereinafter existing.
7.3 Payment to Guardian.
If a benefit payable hereunder is payable to a minor, to a person declared incompetent or to a person incapable of handling the disposition of his property, the Retirement Board may direct payment of such benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent or person. The Retirement Board may require such proof of incompetence, minority, incapacity or guardianship, as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit. Such distribution shall completely discharge the Plan, the Company and each Subsidiary from all liability with respect to such benefit.
7.4 Assignment.
No right or interest under this Plan of any Participant or Beneficiary shall be assignable or transferable in any manner or be subject to alienation, anticipation, sale, pledge, encumbrance or other legal process or in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of the Participant or Beneficiary.
7.5 Severability.
If any provision of this Plan or the application thereof to any circumstance(s) or person(s) is held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the Plan and the application of such provision to other circumstances or persons shall not be affected thereby.
 
7.6 Amendment and Termination.
(a) The Company may at any time (without the consent of any Participant) modify, amend or terminate any or all of the provisions of this Plan; provided, however, that no modification, amendment or termination of this Plan shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under the Plan without the consent of such Participant. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Company may at any time (in its sole discretion and without the consent of any Participant) modify, amend or terminate any or all of the provisions of this Plan or take any other action, to the extent necessary or advisable to conform the provisions of the Plan with Section 409A of the Code, the regulations issued thereunder or an exception thereto, regardless of whether such modification, amendment or termination of this Plan or other action shall adversely affect the rights of a Participant under the Plan. Termination of this Plan shall not be a distribution event under the Plan unless otherwise permitted under Section 409A.
(b) Without limiting the generality of subsection (a), the Vice President - Human Resources of the Company, subject to the consent of the President of the Company, may amend, modify or restate the Plan to: (i) effectuate compliance with legal requirements or changes in applicable laws or regulations (including 409A as set forth above in subsection (a)); and (ii) effectuate other changes which the Vice President - Human Resources believes to be desirable, including, but not limited to, amendments to facilitate the proper and efficient management and administration of the Plan; provided, that except for amendments to the Plan to effectuate compliance with legal requirements or changes in applicable laws or regulations, no amendments shall be made by the Vice President - Human Resources pursuant to this authority which would materially increase or decrease benefits, or which would materially increase the costs of such Plans, including the cost of maintenance or administration.
7.7 Exculpation and Indemnification
The Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and the Retirement Board from and against any and all liabilities, costs and expenses incurred by such persons as a result of any act, or omission to act, in connection with the performance of such person's duties, responsibilities and obligations under the Plan, other than such liabilities, costs and expenses as may result from the gross negligence, willful misconduct, and/or criminal acts of such persons.
7.8 Leave of Absence.
The Company may, in its sole discretion, permit a Participant to take a leave of absence for a period not to exceed 12 months. Any such leave of absence must be approved by the Company. During this time, the Participant will still be considered to be in the employ of the Company for purposes of this Plan.
7.9 Gender and Number.
For purposes of interpreting the provisions of this Plan, the masculine gender shall be deemed to include the feminine, the feminine gender shall be deemed to include the masculine, and the singular shall include the plural unless otherwise clearly required by the context.
7.10 Governing Law.
Except as otherwise preempted by the laws of the United States, this Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, without giving effect to its conflict of law provisions.
 
The name of the plan under which benefits are provided is the CONSOL Energy Inc. Supplemental Retirement Plan
:
Name of Plan
The Sponsor of the Plan is:
:
Plan Sponsor
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1000 CONSOL Energy Drive
Canonsburg, PA 15317
Telephone: 724-485-4000
The Plan Administrator of the Plan is:
:
Plan Administrator
Retirement Board
CONSOL Energy Inc.
1000 CONSOL Energy Drive
Canonsburg, PA 15317
Telephone: 724-485-4000
The Employer Identification Number (EIN) assigned to the Plan Sponsor by the Internal Revenue Service is 51-0337383.
:
Employer Identification Number and Plan Number
Nonqualified deferred compensation plan (top hat).
:
Type of Plan
The Plan is self-administered.
:
Type of Administration
Benefits payable under the Plan are provided from the general assets of the Company.
:
Funding
For disputes arising under the Plan, service of legal process may be made upon the General Counsel of Plan Sponsor.
:
Agent for Service of Legal Process
The Plan's fiscal records are kept on a calendar year basis (January 1 to December 31).
:
Plan Year
 
 
 


