FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20110620085240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The Bituminous Coal Operators Association ("BCOA") and the United Mine Workers of America ("UMWA") have reached a tentative labor agreement which will run from July 1, 2011 to December 31, 2016.
CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL Energy") subsidiary companies that are members of the BCOA operate the following mines in West Virginia: McElroy Mine, Shoemaker Mine, Robinson Run Mine, Loveridge Mine, and Blacksville Mine. CONSOL Energy's Emery Mine in Utah and Mine 84 in Pennsylvania are also operated through subsidiary companies that are members of the BCOA, but those mines are currently idle.
The total incremental cost of the revised terms of the contract over 2010 operating costs at CONSOL Energy's represented operations is projected to average approximately 3.5% per ton, per year over the term of the contract. CONSOL Energy expects a similar increase to impact all of CONSOL Energy's tons due to cost inflation that typically occurs at CONSOL Energy's non-represented mines.
The UMWA has announced that the contract was ratified by its members on June 17, 2011. The effectiveness of the agreement is subject to the execution of the agreement by the UMWA and BCOA member companies.
Forward-Looking Statements
We are including the following cautionary statement in this Current Report on Form 8-K to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf, of us. With the exception of historical matters, the matters discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. The forward-looking statements may include projections and estimates concerning the timing and success of specific projects and our future production, revenues, income and capital spending. When we use the words "believe," "intend," "expect," "may," "should," "anticipate," "could," "estimate," "plan," "predict," "project," or their negatives, or other similar expressions, the statements which include those words are usually forward-looking statements. When we describe strategy that involves risks or uncertainties, we are making forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this Current Report on Form 8-K speak only as of the date of this Current Report on Form 8-K; we disclaim any obligation to update these statements unless required by securities law, and we caution you not to rely on them unduly. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions about future events. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. These risks, contingencies and uncertainties relate to, among other matters, the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 20, 2011


