FILE:CNX/CNX-8K-20110629164533.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Impairments
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Impairments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.06. Material Impairments.
On June 23, 2011, CONSOL Energy Inc. ("CONSOL") decided to close its Mine 84, located near Washington, PA, because it desires to reallocate resources into more profitable coal operations and Marcellus shale drilling activities. CONSOL had ceased production at the mine in the first quarter of 2009. As a result of the closure, CONSOL will incur a pre-tax charge of $116 million. CONSOL estimates that $111 million will be non-cash; $5 million of the charge will result in future cash expenditures. CONSOL anticipates the closure will result in a pre-tax cash savings of approximately $18 million annually.
Forward-Looking Statements
We are including the following cautionary statement in this Form 8-K to make applicable and take advantage of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 for any forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf, of us. With the exception of historical matters, the matters discussed in this Form 8-K are forward-looking statements (as defined in Section 21E of the Exchange Act) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from projected results. Accordingly, investors should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements as a prediction of actual results. The estimated impairment charges and future cash expenditures are forward-looking statements and the actual charge and expenditures may vary from the estimated impairment charges and expenditures. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations and assumptions. While our management considers these expectations and assumptions to be reasonable, they are inherently subject to significant business, economic, competitive, regulatory and other risks, contingencies and uncertainties, most of which are difficult to predict and many of which are beyond our control. These risks, contingencies and uncertainties relate to, among other matters, the following:
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 29, 2011


