FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20030408171550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
                  April 8, 2003
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  
(508) 435-1000
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c)    Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release of EMC Corporation ("EMC") dated April 8, 2003
 
 
On April 8, 2003, EMC issued a press release announcing preliminary results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 8, 2003
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  April 8, 2003  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today announced preliminary financial results for the first quarter of 2003. EMC expects total consolidated revenue to be within the range of $1.35 billion and $1.4 billion, and earnings per share to be at least $.01 per diluted share.
 
EMC will announce full first-quarter results on the morning of Wednesday, April 16, 2003. EMC will host a webcast, available at , beginning at 8:15 a.m. EDT on April 16, 2003.
www.EMC.com
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation is the world leader in information storage systems, software, networks and services, providing automated networked storage solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to better and more cost-effectively manage, protect and share their information. More information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (iv) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (v) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vi) component quality and availability; (vii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines; (viii) war or acts of terrorism; (ix) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (x) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xi) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


