FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20030716080734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):    
July 16, 2003
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(508) 435-1000
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
On July 16, 2003, EMC issued a press release announcing second quarter financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 16, 2003
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  July 16, 2003  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2003, reflecting strong customer adoption of EMC's information storage solutions in a challenging IT spending environment.
 
Total consolidated revenue for the second quarter was $1.48 billion, 7% higher than the $1.39 billion reported for the second quarter of 2002. Net income for the second quarter was $82 million or $.04 per diluted share, compared with net income of $1 million or $.00 per diluted share for the second quarter of 2002.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "The two words that best describe EMC's second-quarter performance are solid and balanced. Our automated networked storage strategy and strong execution are producing good results across all major segments of our business. We are experiencing the benefits of a completely refreshed product portfolio, broadened services offerings and an expanded distribution network. All signs point to additional EMC market share gains during the second quarter and we expect that to continue through the remainder of 2003."
 
EMC's second-quarter results were marked by sequential growth across all major segments of the business. Total information storage systems revenue, including EMC's new Symmetrix DMX, CLARiiON CX and Centera networked information storage systems, grew 7% sequentially compared with the first quarter of 2003. Revenue from the new, highly acclaimed Symmetrix DMX series of high-end networked storage systems accelerated sharply and accounted for approximately 80% of total Symmetrix systems sales in the second quarter. Revenue from EMC's industry-leading CLARiiON CX series again grew sequentially. Enthusiastic customer adoption of serial ATA technology, available on both CLARiiON and Centera systems, resulted in nearly 4.5 petabytes of ATA-based EMC storage shipped during the second quarter.
 
Total information storage software revenue grew 8% sequentially compared with the first quarter of 2003. Revenue from EMC's open multi-platform software, which includes products developed under the AutoIS open software strategy, grew 11% sequentially compared with the first quarter of 2003, driven by demand for the EMC ControlCenter family of storage management software. Total information storage services revenue grew 7% sequentially, led by an increase in software maintenance and support and continued demand for EMC's storage-focused professional services.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Our newly introduced products, broadened distribution channels, storage services offerings, and a
much leaner cost structure have all contributed to a significant improvement in our profitability over the last 12 months. With cash and investments growing by $385 million during the quarter, reaching approximately $6.1 billion and virtually no debt, we have significant resources for the future."
 
In addition to broad customer acceptance of EMC's recently introduced products, highlights of the second quarter included a groundbreaking new version of EMC's popular PowerPath software, including the addition of integrated volume management, multi-vendor array support, and application availability features such as non-disruptive upgrades; the introduction of EMC Centera Compliance Edition, a specialized content addressed storage solution specifically designed to meet and exceed today's strictest records retention regulations; additions to the EMC ControlCenter family of storage management software including new online access and subscription-based software, SAN Architect and AutoAdvice; the announcement of the EMC NetWin 200, the first in a new family of Windows Storage Server products; new and/or enhanced alliances with Cisco, Dell, Fujitsu Siemens, Microsoft, and MTI; a new multi-tiered channel partner program to strengthen EMC's ties with the world's leading storage resellers; and the acquisition of Astrum Software Corporation, a privately held supplier of storage resource management (SRM) software for multi-platform, mid-tier storage environments.
 
Also during the quarter, EMC Automated Networked Storage continued to be recognized for innovation and market leadership. The new CLARiiON CX series of networked storage systems received the MVP (Most Valuable Product) award at the 2003 Storage World Conference. New Gartner findings also confirmed that EMC was the world's #1 storage systems and storage management software provider in 2002.*
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. Except for the planned acquisition of LEGATO Systems, Inc., these statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof. These statements supersede the Business Outlook set forth in EMC's news release dated April 16, 2003, reporting financial results for the first quarter of 2003.
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation is the world leader in information storage systems, software, networks and services, providing automated networked storage solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to better and more cost-effectively manage, protect and share their information. More information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions, including the challenges and costs of closing, integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the announced plan to acquire LEGATO Systems, Inc.; (ii) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (iii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iv) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (v) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vii) component quality and availability; (viii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Includes hardware, hardware upgrades and platform software.
(b) Includes Connectrix fibre channel switch/director revenues and Celerra file server revenue, exclusive of disk revenue.
(c) Includes software products that only work with EMC arrays.
(d) Includes software products that are designed to manage heterogenous environments including EMC and non-EMC arrays.
 
 
 


