FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20030416080559.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.    Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 9.    Regulation FD Disclosure (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition")
 
On April 16, 2003, EMC issued a press release announcing first quarter results for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EMC CORPORATION
 
By:
/s/ William J. Teuber, Jr.        
      William J. Teuber, Jr.
      Executive Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer
 
Date: April 16, 2003
 
 
 
Exhibit
              
No.
Description
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
Contact:    Michael Gallant
508-293-6357
gallant_michael@emc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  April 16, 2003  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2003. The results reflect strong customer adoption of EMC's broad portfolio of automated networked storage solutions.
 
Total consolidated revenue for the first quarter was $1.38 billion, 6% higher than the $1.30 billion reported in the first quarter of 2002. Net income for the first quarter was $35 million or $.02 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $77 million or $.03 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2002.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "The product innovation engine at EMC is running in overdrive. We continue to earn the confidence of new and existing customers by delivering market-leading price/performance through the broadest portfolio of storage platforms, software and services in EMC's history. As a result, I believe we again gained market share during the first quarter."
 
EMC's first-quarter results were marked by encouraging performance in several strategic areas. Revenue from EMC's new Symmetrix DMX series of high-end networked storage systems, introduced on February 3, 2003, accounted for more than half of total Symmetrix systems sales. Revenue from EMC's CLARiiON CX series of networked storage systems and software, introduced in the third quarter of 2002, continued to achieve strong growth. Revenue from information storage software grew 6% in the first quarter compared with the first quarter of 2002. Revenue from information storage services grew 28% in the first quarter compared with the first quarter of 2002. EMC Centera Content Addressed Storage (CAS) systems, introduced a year ago, continue to be EMC's fastest-growing major product line. EMC shipped more than two petabytes (2,000 terabytes) of Centera systems in the first quarter.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "We achieved significant improvement in our profitability due to the popularity of our new line of storage platforms, including the Symmetrix DMX and CLARiiON CX series, growth in storage services revenue, and a lowered cost structure. Over the past seven quarters, we have reduced our revenue break-even point by more than $2 billion on an annualized basis. During the first quarter, our continued attack on costs and improved margins enabled us to reach our targeted break-even level a full quarter ahead of schedule. With cash and investments at approximately $5.7 billion and virtually no debt, we have a solid financial foundation."
 
For details on some of the many customers who chose to implement EMC Automated Networked Storage solutions during the first quarter, please see EMC's separate customer news release issued today.
 
Besides the introduction of Symmetrix DMX and its record-breaking new Direct Matrix Architecture, other highlights of the first quarter included the introduction of the Symmetrix z8000 and CLARiiON with ATA networked storage systems; the introduction of EMC SAN Copy, enabling customers to centrally manage the movement and replication of data between current and legacy EMC CLARiiON and Symmetrix systems; and the broadening of EMC's market reach through new and enhanced partner and channel relationships with Oracle, Lockheed Martin, GE Medical, Eastman Kodak, Iron Mountain and KVS Inc. Also during the quarter, EMC settled all pending patent infringement litigation with Hitachi and Hitachi Data Systems (HDS) and agreed to exchange application programming interfaces (APIs) with Hitachi, HDS and Veritas Software.
 
EMC Automated Networked Storage solutions have been recognized repeatedly since the start of the year for innovation and market leadership. EMC was the only company to achieve "leader" status in both the SAN and NAS markets in META Group's recently released METAspectrum
SM
. New market data released by IDC found that EMC gained market share in the fourth quarter of 2002 to finish the year as the revenue leader in both the networked storage (Open SAN + NAS) and External RAID systems markets. Analysts at Gartner Dataquest confirmed that EMC was the world's leading supplier of storage management software in 2002, for the fourth straight year.
 
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof.
 
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation is the world leader in information storage systems, software, networks and services, providing automated networked storage solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to better and more cost-effectively manage, protect and share their information. More information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (iv) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (v) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vi) component quality and availability; (vii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines; (viii) war or acts of terrorism; (ix) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (x) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xi) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


