FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20030708080503.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release of EMC Corporation ("EMC") dated July 8, 2003
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure (Information furnished pursuant to Item 12, "Results of Operations and Financial Condition")
 
On July 8, 2003, EMC issued a press release announcing preliminary results for the quarter ended June 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 8, 2003
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  July 8, 2003  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today announced preliminary results for the second quarter of 2003, which ended June 30, 2003. EMC expects total consolidated revenue to be around the high end of the previously stated range of $1.425 billion and $1.475 billion, and earnings per share to meet, or exceed by $0.01, the previously stated net income target of $0.03 per diluted share.
 
EMC will announce full second-quarter results on the morning of Wednesday, July 16, 2003. EMC will host a webcast, available at www.EMC.com, beginning at 8:15 a.m. EDT on July 16, 2003.
 
Today, EMC also announced its plan to acquire LEGATO Systems, Inc. in a stock transaction valued at approximately $1.3 billion (see separate release). EMC and LEGATO will host a webcast at EMC and LEGATO's homepages, and today at 8:30 a.m. EDT, to discuss the acquisition.
www.emc.com
www.legato.com
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation is the world leader in information storage systems, software, networks and services, providing automated networked storage solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to better and more cost-effectively manage, protect and share their information. More information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions, including the challenges and costs of closing, integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the announced plan to acquire LEGATO Systems, Inc.; (ii) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (iii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iv) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (v) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vii) component quality and availability; (viii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.


