FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20031016072511.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
.    
Item 7
Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
.    
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 16, 2003, EMC issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and shall be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 16, 2003
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  October 16, 2003  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2003, reflecting balanced double-digit growth across all major business segments and improved profitability.
 
Total consolidated revenue for the third quarter was $1.51 billion, 20% higher than the $1.26 billion reported for the third quarter of 2002. Net income for the third quarter was $159 million or $.07 per diluted share, including a $.02 benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of certain tax audits. This compares with net income of $21 million or $.01 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2002.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "We are pleased that our third-quarter results reflect strong customer acceptance of EMC's comprehensive lineup of automated networked storage solutions. We are on track to achieve double-digit growth for the year, which not many large technology companies will do in this challenging economic environment. With 11% revenue growth for the first nine months of 2003 compared with the same period in 2002, it is clear that we continue to gain market share and extend EMC's lead as the world's #1 provider of information storage solutions."
 
Tucci continued, "With Tuesday's announcement of our agreement to acquire Documentum and the pending completion of our acquisition of LEGATO, two complementary leaders in information management software, we are making the strategic moves necessary to enable our customers to manage all of their information according to its value to the business at every stage of its life, at the lowest total cost  creating the ultimate information lifecycle management company."
 
EMC's revenue growth was balanced across all major segments of its business. In particular, information storage software revenue grew to 23% of the company's total revenue, driven by demand for replication, multi-platform management and content-addressed storage (CAS) software. Information storage systems revenue also had strong double-digit growth on a year-to-year basis, led by EMC's new Symmetrix DMX and CLARiiON CX networked information storage systems. Double-digit revenue growth in information storage services was spurred by strong customer demand for EMC's storage-focused professional services.
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "The blend of new products and crisp execution across the entire organization enabled EMC to turn in strong top- and bottom-line results in what is traditionally the most challenging quarter of the year. We enhanced our balance sheet by growing cash and investments by almost $130 million to nearly $6.2 billion during the quarter, while buying back nearly $100 million worth of the company's stock."
 
EMC's rapid delivery of new products continued in the third quarter. Highlights include the unveiling of the next major wave of Symmetrix DMX systems, software and related technologies, including the new Symmetrix DMX3000, an entry-level Symmetrix DMX800 configuration, new advanced replication technology, native iSCSI connectivity and enhanced functionality for mainframe customers; the extension of EMC CLARiiON's functional leadership through major enhancements to EMC Navisphere, EMC SnapView and EMC SAN Copy software; the strengthening of EMC's open software portfolio with the addition of powerful new VisualSRM and VisualSAN software for small-and medium-sized organizations; and the introduction of EMC OpenScale, the world's first automated "pay as you go" billing for storage infrastructure.
 
EMC continued to extend its market reach in the third quarter by announcing its agreement to acquire LEGATO Systems, Inc., and create the world's most comprehensive portfolio of information storage software; partnering with BMC Software, the first independent software provider to resell EMC ControlCenter storage management software; and broadening its relationship with Oracle Corporation to include a new joint service available to help customers easily deploy Oracle Database with EMC network attached storage (NAS) technology.
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements assume the acquisition of LEGATO Systems, Inc., closes on or about October 20, 2003, and the acquisition of Documentum, Inc., closes at the beginning of January 2004. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof, except for the planned acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., and Documentum, Inc.
 
 
 
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in information storage systems, software, networks and services, providing automated networked storage solutions to help organizations get the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions, including the challenges and costs of closing, integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the announced plans to acquire LEGATO Systems, Inc. and Documentum, Inc; (ii) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (iii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iv) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (v) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vii) component quality and availability; (viii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such-forward looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 


