FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20040720075142.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 20, 2004, EMC issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. The press release may contain non-GAAP financial measures. If any non-GAAP financial measures are presented, a reconciliation to GAAP is included. Management uses any such non-GAAP financial measures to gain an understanding of its comparative operating performance. Management believes that these measures provide useful information because they exclude activities that are not necessarily relevant to understand EMC's business.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: July 20, 2004
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  July 20, 2004  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the second quarter of 2004, achieving its fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year revenue growth and more than doubling net income compared with the year-ago period.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's second quarter was $1.97 billion, 33% higher than the $1.48 billion reported for the second quarter of 2003. Net income for the quarter was $193 million or $.08 per diluted share, 136% higher than the $82 million or $.04 per diluted share reported for the second quarter of 2003.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "I was pleased with our overall execution and financial results in the second quarter. Clearly the highlight of the quarter was our strong double-digit year-over-year revenue growth and resulting market-share gains in each of our business lines. The main driver of this growth was strong execution of our information lifecycle management strategy and solutions, which are enjoying an excellent reception from our customers and the overall IT marketplace.
 
"I continue to believe the overall market environment for storage and information management technology is rich with opportunity yet challenging, as customers continue to demand more from IT providers. They are looking for broader best of breed' solution sets and better service and support, and they are uncompromising when it comes to improving the total cost of ownership and overall returns on their IT investments. We think our strategy and our portfolio are very well suited for this challenge."
 
Core EMC revenue, which excludes product and service revenue from EMC's Documentum, LEGATO Software and VMware businesses, grew 19% compared with the second quarter of 2003. Core EMC international revenue grew 24%, with double-digit revenue growth in each major geography including Europe, Asia and Latin America.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Our extensive product and services portfolio and expanded market reach helped us to achieve our financial goals in the second quarter. We continued to drive revenue growth, improve gross margins and increase cash flow, while improving operating income to more than 12% of revenues  putting us squarely on track to reach our mid-teens operating margin goal by the end of the year."
Second Quarter Highlights
 
EMC systems revenue grew 16% compared with the year-ago quarter as customers around the world aligned the value of their information to the appropriate platform within EMC's expanded family of tiered information storage. EMC's systems business in the quarter was led by EMC CLARiiON and EMC Celerra NAS platforms, which both had revenue growth of more than 40% compared with the year-ago quarter.
 
EMC software revenue increased 64% compared with the same period a year ago, buoyed by strong double-digit growth from sales of EMC's core storage software and the impact of the Documentum, LEGATO Software and VMware acquisitions. LEGATO Software delivered a record second quarter, driven by a 20% year-over-year increase in software license sales. Documentum also achieved double-digit year-over-year growth, with revenues increasing 14%.
 
VMware delivered record quarterly revenues in its second quarter as a separate subsidiary of EMC, as organizations turned to the virtual infrastructure software leader to virtualize industry-standard servers and desktops throughout the enterprise.
 
EMC services revenue grew 45% compared with the year-ago quarter, driven by increased software maintenance revenue, customer demand for information lifecycle management solutions and the impact of EMC's recent acquisitions.
 
EMC expanded its market reach through major new and enhanced partner agreements during the quarter. EMC announced it will resell Advanced Digital Information Corporation's (ADIC) tape library solutions to broaden its lineup of tiered networked storage; Langchao Electronic Information Industry Corp., Ltd., a leading server vendor in China, agreed to OEM the entire line of EMC CLARiiON products; Dell added EMC's LEGATO backup and replication software to its storage management offering; and VMware strengthened its relationships with systems vendors IBM and HP.
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof. The Business Outlook set forth in EMC's news releases dated January 22, 2004, April 15, 2004, and June 10, 2004, still represents EMC's current expectations unless specifically superceded by these or previously issued statements:
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information storage and management that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
 
EMC, Documentum, LEGATO and VMware are registered trademarks and EMC CLARiiON and EMC Celerra are trademarks of EMC Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions and investments, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., Documentum, Inc. and VMware, Inc.; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (v) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (vi) component quality and availability; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (viii) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


