FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20041019074035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 19, 2004, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. The press release may contain non-GAAP financial measures. If any non-GAAP financial measures are presented, a reconciliation to GAAP is included. Management uses any such non-GAAP financial measures to gain an understanding of its comparative operating performance. Management believes that these measures provide useful information because they exclude activities that are not necessarily relevant to understand EMC's business.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1    Press Release of EMC Corporation dated October 19, 2004 (furnished pursuant to Item 2.02).
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 19, 2004
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  October 19, 2004  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the third quarter of 2004, achieving its fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year revenue growth.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's third quarter was $2.03 billion, 34% higher than the $1.51 billion reported for the third quarter of 2003. Net income for the quarter was $218 million or $.09 per diluted share, 37% higher than the $159 million or $.07 per diluted share reported for the third quarter of 2003.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "We again achieved solid, balanced performance in a spending environment that continues to improve at a steady but modest pace. In each of the first three quarters of 2004, we have grown revenues almost three times faster than our overall addressable market. Clearly, our focus on information lifecycle management is influencing and improving how customers manage and store information, as well as setting the agenda for our industry as a whole."
 
Core EMC revenue, which excludes revenue related to EMC's Documentum, Legato and VMware acquisitions, grew 19% compared with the third quarter of 2003. All of EMC's major geographies recorded double-digit core revenue growth, with each of EMC's international regions gaining more than 20%.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "We have now met or exceeded our financial goals for eight consecutive quarters. During the third quarter, our gross and operating margins continued to expand, and our already strong balance sheet got even stronger. Cash and investments exceeded $7 billion for the first time in the company's history while we remained active in the market, buying back $108 million of our stock during the quarter. I am particularly pleased with the returns we are seeing from investments made to broaden our product portfolio and expand our customer reach, which have allowed us to penetrate more deeply into high-growth markets."
Third Quarter Highlights
 
EMC systems revenue grew 18% compared with the year-ago quarter as customers of all sizes aligned the value of their information to platforms within EMC's expanded family of tiered information storage.
 
"Our commitment to developing the market's most economical, functionally rich mid-tier systems and software is clearly paying off," commented Tucci. "Our traditional enterprise customers, along with our rapidly growing base of small to medium-sized customers, are integrating these solutions into their ILM-enabled infrastructures. In the third quarter, our CLARiiON, Centera and NAS (network attached storage) businesses collectively grew well over 50%."
 
EMC software license revenue increased 56% compared with the same period a year ago, driven by the Documentum, Legato and VMware acquisitions and double-digit growth from sales of EMC's core storage software.
 
The newly formed EMC Software Group, which markets and develops platform-independent information storage and content management software, delivered consolidated revenues of $351 million in the third quarter as customers around the world implemented EMC software to reduce costs, streamline complex IT operations and handle explosive data growth. The major components of EMC Software Group, including core EMC multi-platform software, Documentum and Legato, each had double-digit revenue growth in the third quarter over the comparable year-ago quarter.
 
VMware, an EMC subsidiary, delivered record quarterly revenues of $61 million in the third quarter, an increase of more than 200% over the third quarter of 2003. With the introduction of VMware ACE in the third quarter, VMware again demonstrated its relentless innovation and aggressive technology leadership. VMware solves the problems of efficiency, flexibility and security with its comprehensive solutions for servers, desktops and test and development that provide an easy on-ramp to next-generation computing models.
 
EMC services revenue grew 48% compared with the year-ago third quarter, due to the impact of EMC's software company acquisitions, increased core software maintenance revenue and continued customer demand for information lifecycle management solutions.
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof. The business outlook set forth in EMC's news releases dated January 22, 2004, April 15, 2004, June 10, 2004 and July 20, 2004 still represents EMC's current expectations unless specifically superceded by these or previously issued statements:
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information storage and management that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
 
EMC, Documentum, LEGATO and VMware are registered trademarks, and EMC CLARiiON and EMC Celerra are trademarks of EMC Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions and investments, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., Documentum, Inc. and VMware, Inc.; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (v) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (vi) component quality and availability; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (viii) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
As of July 1, 2004, Massachusetts corporations are required to report treasury stock as unissued shares. As such, 99,105 re-acquired shares with a cost of $926,710 have been reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 


