FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20040122072739.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 22, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(508) 435-1000
 
 
.    
Item 7
Financial Statements,
Pro Forma
Financial Information and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
.    
Item 12
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 22, 2004, EMC issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2003. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. The Business Outlook section of the press release may contain non-GAAP financial measures. If any non-GAAP financial measures are presented, a reconciliation to GAAP is included. Management uses any such non-GAAP financial measures to gain an understanding of its comparative operating performance. Management believes that these measures provide useful information because they exclude activities that are not necessarily relevant to understand EMC's business.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 22, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  January 22, 2004  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported fourth-quarter and full fiscal year financial results for 2003, reflecting strong customer demand for the company's broad portfolio of systems, software and services for information lifecycle management.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's fourth quarter was $1.86 billion, 25% higher than the $1.49 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2002. Net income for the fourth quarter was $220 million or $.09 per diluted share, including a net benefit of $.01 resulting from certain income tax benefits, partially offset by restructuring and other special charges primarily related to the completed acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., and Documentum, Inc. This compares with a net loss of $64 million or ($.03) per share for the fourth quarter of 2002.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's full 2003 fiscal year was $6.24 billion, 15% higher than the $5.44 billion reported for the full 2002 fiscal year. Net income for the full 2003 fiscal year was $496 million or $.22 per diluted share, compared with a net loss of $119 million or ($.05) per share for the full 2002 fiscal year.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "The strength of our broadened product portfolio, combined with outstanding execution and an improving global economy, made for a solid finish to 2003. Our information lifecycle management strategy is being well received by both long-standing and new customers who are grappling with the challenges of compliance, information protection and constrained budgets. EMC strengthened its market position and clearly gained share in 2003."
 
Tucci continued, "I could not be prouder of the EMC team. The impact of helping our customers control both their information and their costs is evident in today's results. Our innovation engine continued to run in overdrive throughout the year, enabling us to rapidly deliver new capabilities and functionality to our customers, who will reap even greater benefits from our aggressive product development in 2004."
 
EMC's revenue growth was strong across all major business segments and geographies in the fourth quarter. EMC Symmetrix, CLARiiON and Centera networked storage systems and core EMC software and services, which excludes revenue from LEGATO Software and
Documentum, each experienced double-digit sequential revenue growth compared with the third quarter of 2003. Total CLARiiON revenue, which includes systems and related software, reached nearly $1 billion for the full year, continuing to rapidly gain share in the mid-tier storage market. Connectivity revenues also had double-digit sequential growth, stimulated by high demand for EMC's groundbreaking new NAS Gateway, the Celerra NS600G. Consolidated international revenue grew 33% compared to the same period a year ago, representing a record 43% of EMC's fourth quarter revenues.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "For the year we reached and exceeded every major financial goal we set at the start of 2003. We were increasingly profitable during each quarter of 2003 and grew revenues every quarter over the preceding one throughout the year. Our crisp execution translated into continued improvements in our cost structure and additional margin expansion. We ended the year with the strongest balance sheet in EMC's history with more than $6.9 billion in cash and investments."
 
During the fourth quarter, EMC completed the acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., on October 20, and Documentum, Inc., on December 18, significantly expanding the world's most comprehensive portfolio of information lifecycle management solutions. LEGATO and Documentum each achieved record revenue during the fourth quarter. LEGATO and Documentum revenue recognized after the respective closings of these acquisitions are included in EMC's fourth quarter and full fiscal year results.
 
EMC's market-leading Symmetrix DMX high-end storage systems were named "Product of the Year" for 2003 among all disk and disk subsystems by TechTarget's Storage magazine and Searchstorage.com. Among other highlights of the fourth quarter, EMC continued to broaden its product portfolio and gain industry-wide recognition for delivering innovation and award-winning service to customers around the globe. EMC unveiled a series of new mid-tier network-attached storage (NAS) systems, including the NS600G NAS Gateway and NetWin 200 systems. EMC's LEGATO Software division delivered enhancements to its RepliStor for Windows Storage Server solution, allowing for the support of many-to-one and one-to-many replication configurations for data consolidation on a Windows Storage Server. Both EMC and LEGATO were recognized by the Service and Support Professionals Association (SSPA) for outstanding customer support. magazine selected EMC as the Best Storage Solutions Provider for 2003, and (CPM) magazine inducted EMC into the CPM Hall of Fame for its contributions to business continuity.
DM Review
Contingency Planning & Management
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be completed after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding Business Outlook set forth in prior EMC news releases.
 
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information storage and management that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) risks associated with strategic investments and acquisitions, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies associated with the acquisitions of LEGATO Systems, Inc., Documentum, Inc. and VMware, Inc.; (ii) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (iii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iv) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings, and rapid technological and market change; (v) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures; (vii) component quality and availability; (viii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 


