FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20050419072747.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 19, 2005, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. The press release may contain non-GAAP financial measures. If any non-GAAP financial measures are presented, a reconciliation to GAAP is included. Management uses any such non-GAAP financial measures to gain an understanding of its comparative operating performance. Management believes that these measures provide useful information because they exclude activities that are not necessarily relevant to understand EMC's business.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: April 19, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  April 19, 2005  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported financial results for the first quarter of 2005, achieving double-digit year-to-year revenue growth for the seventh consecutive quarter. EMC, the world leader in information storage and management, saw first-quarter growth driven by its market-leading mid-tier storage systems, expanding software business, and increasingly popular professional services.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's first quarter was $2.24 billion, 20% higher than the $1.87 billion reported for the first quarter of 2004. Net income for the quarter was $270 million or $.11 per diluted share, 93% higher than the $140 million or $.06 per diluted share reported for the first quarter of 2004.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "EMC delivered its seventh quarter in a row of double-digit revenue growth, once again extending one of the strongest and steadiest growth stories in the tech industry today. Solid execution and the investments we have made to broaden our product and market reach played major roles in our ability to successfully navigate through a difficult first quarter."
 
"Clearly, our acquisition strategy is bearing fruit, strengthening our core business and taking us into opportunity-rich adjacent markets," Tucci continued. "We are satisfying customers' demands with a product portfolio that is second to none and by leveraging our market leadership across all major segments of our business. We are using these combined strengths to greater and greater effect as our hardware, software and services offerings become even more tightly integrated and as we continue our new product introductions this year."
 
Systems revenue grew 15% in the first quarter, compared with the year-ago quarter, to $1.03 billion, driven by strong, double-digit growth from the EMC CLARiiON, Celerra NAS and Centera platforms. Strong performances across each of EMC's software businesses grew software license and maintenance revenues 26% to $832 million in the first quarter, now representing 37% of total EMC revenues. Professional services, systems maintenance and other services revenue grew 26% to $375 million during the quarter, as customers around the globe turned to EMC to help manage the growing complexity of their information infrastructures.
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Our tenth straight quarter of meeting or exceeding our major financial objectives places us firmly on track to deliver on our 2005 goals. During the quarter, we continued to execute well across the board, achieving double-digit growth in all three major business lines and all of our major geographic regions. We generated more than $600 million in cash from operations and used $380 million to acquire SMARTS and buy back 9.8 million shares of company stock. We were particularly pleased with our operating margins for the quarter, and we believe we are on course to end the year with operating margins in the high teens."
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
Demand for EMC's broad portfolio of tiered networked storage platforms and related software drove double-digit revenue growth across its platforms businesses in the first quarter. EMC CLARiiON networked storage revenues grew 47% year over year, posting solid growth across all major geographic regions, particularly Europe, and in each of EMC's direct and indirect channels. CLARiiON's fourth consecutive quarter of more than 40% revenue growth was driven by EMC's focus on delivering complete solutions that address the needs of midsize enterprises. EMC Celerra NAS systems revenue grew 40% during the quarter, the fifth consecutive quarter of more than 30% revenue growth. Customer deployments of the EMC Celerra NS Gateway filers and NS integrated products into tiered storage environments continued to drive market momentum for the industry's most comprehensive family of NAS solutions.
 
The EMC Software Group reported revenues of $401 million in the first quarter, a year-over-year increase of 24%. Growth across the EMC Software Group's major categories was fueled by the tremendous value customers are realizing from the ability of EMC software to help them reduce operational costs and complexity and to comply with government regulations. Storage and Management Software license revenue, which includes EMC PowerPath, the EMC ControlCenter and EMC Visual product families, and the EMC Smarts software product family, grew 21% in the first quarter. Backup and Archive software license revenue, which comprises all EMC software for backup and archiving including the EMC Dantz software family, grew revenues 36% during the quarter, driven by EMC Legato NetWorker, EMC Dantz Retrospect, EMC EmailXtender, EMC DiskXtender and EMC Replication Manager software. Content Management Software license revenue, including the entire EMC Documentum line, grew 23% with the addition of more than 125 new customers during the quarter.
 
VMware, an EMC subsidiary, reported record quarterly revenues of $80 million in the first quarter, a year-over-year increase of 104%. VMware booked a record number of new deals, and license sales represented nearly 80% of VMware's first-quarter revenues. VMware's triple-digit revenue growth was led by strong customer demand for its virtual infrastructure software products used widely for server consolidation and containment, business continuity, test/development and the enterprise desktop. During the quarter VMware continued to strengthen its channels and deepen relationships with Dell, Hewlett-Packard, IBM and Intel. In the last year, VMware's innovation, excellence and strategic importance to customers around the world have been recognized through more than 20 industry awards.
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not give effect to (1) the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, (2) the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced after the date hereof or (3) the potential impact of expensing stock options under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement 123R (FAS 123R). These statements supersede all prior statements regarding Business Outlook set forth in prior EMC news releases.
 
Second quarter of 2005
 
 
 
Full-year 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information storage and management that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
EMC, Celerra, CLARiiON, Dantz, DiskXtender, Documentum, EmailXtender, EMC ControlCenter, Legato, Powerpath, Retrospect, SMARTS and VMware are registered trademarks, and Centera, ESX Server and VMware ACE are trademarks of EMC Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions and investments, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (v) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (vi) component and product quality and availability; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and
rapid technological and market change; (viii) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in the above are stock options with exercise prices of $36.66 and greater. For the quarter ended March 31, 2005, these options accounted for $52.6 million of stock option expense or $ 0.02 per weighted average share - basic and $0.02 per weighted average share - diluted earnings per share.


