FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20050822122222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 22, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal
Officers
 
(d)
Election of Directors
 
Effective August 22, 2005, the Board of Directors of EMC Corporation elected Michael W. Brown as a Class II Director.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Brown to the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c)
Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
EMC CORPORATION
 
By:
/s/ Paul T. Dacier                        
        Paul T. Dacier
        Senior Vice President and
        General Counsel
 
Date: August 22, 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  August 22, 2005  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information management and storage, today announced the election of Michael W. Brown to its board of directors. Mr. Brown is the former chief financial officer of Microsoft Corporation, where he was responsible for the company's worldwide information technology, manufacturing and operations, finance and business development organizations. The addition of Mr. Brown expands the number of EMC board members to eleven.
 
Mike Ruettgers, Chairman of EMC's Board of Directors, said, "The addition of Mike strengthens the expertise and expands the breadth of EMC's board. Mike is a leader in the financial industry and helped lead one of the most valuable, sustained growth companies in all of technology through many important financial, investment and business achievements. Mike's experience will be valuable as EMC continues to expand its portfolio and open up new market opportunities."
 
Most recently, Mr. Brown served as chairman of the NASDAQ Stock Market board of directors and as a past governor of the National Association of Securities Dealers. Mr. Brown joined Microsoft Corporation in 1989 as its treasurer and became its chief financial officer in 1993, where he served until his retirement in July 1997. Prior to joining Microsoft, Mr. Brown spent 18 years with Deloitte & Touche LLP. He holds a bachelor of science degree in Economics from the University of Washington.
 
Mr. Brown serves on several boards including Administaff, Inc. (NYSE:ASF), 360networks, FatKat, Inc., Pipeline Trading Systems, and DayJet Corporation. He is a member of the Thomas Weisel Partners Advisory Board, the University of Washington Business School Advisory Board, and the Particle Economics Research Institute.
 
Five independent directors have joined EMC's board since Ruettgers was named chairman in 2001. In addition to Mr. Brown, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, Executive Vice President and General Manager of Mobile Phones at Nokia, joined the board in 2004. David Strohm, a general partner with Greylock Partners, joined in 2003. Gail Deegan, former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Houghton Mifflin Company, joined in 2002, and Windle Priem, former President and Chief Executive Officer of Korn/Ferry International, became a director in 2001.
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information management and storage that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
For more information about EMC's corporate governance practices, visit .
www.EMC.com/about/governance


