FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20050125074546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On January 25, 2005, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2004. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein. The press release contains EMC's Business Outlook which includes certain forward-looking numbers that may constitute non-GAAP financial measures due to the fact that these numbers do not include the impact of expensing stock options under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement 123R (FAS 123R), which will be effective for fiscal quarters after June 15, 2005. EMC is unable to provide a quantitative reconciliation of such forward-looking measures to GAAP because EMC is currently in the process of assessing its implementation of FAS 123R and, therefore, the amount of stock option expense is unknown at this time. Notwithstanding the fact that these forward-looking numbers exclude the impact of expensing stock options, management believes that these forward-looking numbers are useful to investors because they provide insight into management's current expectations for the performance of EMC's business. Management also believes such information is useful because it represents the manner in which EMC's business is currently being managed.
 
The press release may also contain other non-GAAP financial measures. If any other non-GAAP financial measures are presented, reconciliation to GAAP is included. Management uses any such non-GAAP financial measures to gain an understanding of its comparative operating performance. Management believes that these measures provide useful information because they exclude activities that are not necessarily relevant to understand EMC's business.
 
The information in this Form 8-K and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 25, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  January 25, 2005  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported strong fourth-quarter and full fiscal year financial results for 2004. EMC's sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year revenue growth was driven by robust customer demand for its expanded software portfolio, tiered networked storage systems and professional services.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's fourth quarter was $2.36 billion, 27% higher than the $1.86 billion reported for the fourth quarter of 2003. Net income for the quarter grew 46% to $321 million or $.13 per diluted share, compared with $220 million or $.09 per diluted share reported for the fourth quarter of 2003.
 
Total consolidated revenue for EMC's full 2004 fiscal year was $8.23 billion, 32% higher than the $6.24 billion reported for the full 2003 fiscal year. Net income for the full 2004 fiscal year grew 76% to $871 million or $.36 per diluted share, compared with $496 million or $.22 per diluted share reported for the full 2003 fiscal year.
 
Joe Tucci, EMC's President and CEO, said, "EMC had a strong finish to a solid 2004. Customers rewarded our focus on information lifecycle management (ILM) with a sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth. Our people, products and partners continue to define what is required to be the best-of-breed provider of systems, software, services and integrated solutions for comprehensive information storage and management."
 
"2004 was an exceptional year for EMC," continued Tucci. "We extended our market and technology position across all of our major segments and geographies, while significantly advancing our ILM and VMware's virtual infrastructure strategies. In 2005, we intend to further expand our share of an expected $51 billion market opportunity by accelerating our pace of innovation, driving additional value from our acquired
 
companies, expanding our channel partner network and increasing our focus on overall customer satisfaction."
 
Core EMC revenue in the fourth quarter of 2004, which excludes revenue related to EMC's Dantz, Documentum, Legato and VMware acquisitions, grew 19% compared with the fourth quarter of 2003. All of EMC's major geographies recorded double-digit revenue growth, with consolidated international revenue increasing 26% during the quarter.
 
Bill Teuber, EMC's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "For the second consecutive year we exceeded every major financial goal that we set in January. Moving our operating margins up into the mid-teens has been a focus for some time, and we finished the fourth quarter in that range. Cash and investments grew by more than $400 million during the quarter, while we continued to leverage our financial strength by buying back $128 million in company stock and acquiring Dantz Development Corporation. The strength of our balance sheet will continue to provide us with solid financial footing for our growth plans moving forward."
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
 
Systems revenue grew 15% compared with the year-ago quarter, with every product category showing year-over-year growth. Growth in EMC Symmetrix networked storage systems revenue confirmed that EMC continued its high-end market share gains in the fourth quarter. On a year-over-year basis, EMC CLARiiON networked storage systems revenues grew 46% as small to medium-sized enterprises embraced CLARiiON's unique blend of functionality and affordability. The new EMC CLARiiON Disk Library (CDL) products were notably strong as customers implemented EMC's backup-to-disk solutions to reduce recovery times. EMC Celerra NAS (networked attached storage) and EMC Centera CAS (content addressed storage) products continued to gain momentum in the marketplace with strong, double-digit year-over-year revenue growth. Centera had a record quarter, growing revenues 48% over the year-ago quarter.
 
Total software license revenue in the fourth quarter increased 43% compared with the same period a year ago, driven by EMC's acquisitions of Dantz, Documentum, Legato and VMware, and by a 26% year-over-year increase in EMC's quarterly core software sales.
 
The EMC Software Group reported consolidated revenues of $410 million in the fourth quarter, a sequential increase of 17% compared with the third quarter of 2004. Each of the EMC Software Group's major components had record revenues during the quarter, with double-digit revenue growth across EMC's core multi-platform, Documentum and Legato software products. The EMC Software Group saw notable product strength during the quarter from its EMC Legato NetWorker software, EMC Documentum Enterprise Content Management Platforms and EMC ControlCenter software family.
 
VMware, an EMC subsidiary, delivered record quarterly revenues of $71 million in the fourth quarter, an increase of 159% over VMware's fourth-quarter 2003 results. VMware's torrid growth was led by strong customer demand for its enterprise products, including VMware ESX Server and VMware Virtual Center.
 
EMC services revenue grew 35% compared with the year-ago fourth quarter. The increase was due to the impact of EMC's software acquisitions, growing software maintenance revenues and customer demand for assistance in implementing information lifecycle management.
 
"We believe our broadened product portfolio delivered share gains across each of our business lines in the fourth quarter," Tucci said. "Growth among our platforms was driven by our mid-tier systems and supported by our market-leading high-end EMC Symmetrix family, which recorded its highest quarterly revenue in more than two years. Our recent acquisitions continued to have momentum in the market. Solutions from Legato and Documentum each delivered in excess of $100 million in quarterly revenues for the first time, and VMware maintained its triple-digit revenue growth for the fourth consecutive quarter as an EMC subsidiary."
 
2004 Highlights
 
EMC's revenue growth was strong across all major business lines in 2004. EMC's systems business, which grew revenues 17%, benefited from Symmetrix's year-long high-end share gains and CLARiiON's record performance, which completely changed the dynamics of the mid-tier market in 2004.
 
Total software revenues, including license and maintenance revenues, grew to $2.98 billion and accounted for more than a third of total revenues in 2004, due in part to the outstanding performance of EMC's recent software acquisitions. VMware alone nearly tripled its revenues in 2004, cementing its position as the fastest-growing software concern of its size.
 
Services revenues grew 44% in 2004, due to increased customer demand for professional service implementations and increased software maintenance revenues.
 
Consolidated international revenues grew 39% in 2004, driven by double-digit revenue growth in Europe, Asia and Latin America. International revenue represented 42% of EMC's total 2004 revenues, compared with 40% in 2003.
 
Business Outlook
 
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not include the impact of expensing stock options under the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Statement 123R (FAS 123R), which will be effective for fiscal quarters after June 15, 2005
1
, or the potential impact of any mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may
 
be announced after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding Business Outlook set forth in prior EMC news releases.
 
First quarter of 2005
 
 
 
Full-year 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About EMC
 
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world leader in products, services and solutions for information storage and management that help organizations extract the maximum value from their information, at the lowest total cost, across every point in the information lifecycle. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
 
 
EMC, Dantz, Documentum, Legato and VMware are registered trademarks, and EMC Symmetrix, EMC CLARiiON, EMC Centera and EMC Celerra are trademarks of EMC Corporation. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii)
 
delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions and investments, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (v) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (vi) component and product quality and availability; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (viii) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (ix) war or acts of terrorism; (x) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As of July 1, 2004, Massachusetts corporations are required to report treasury stock as unissued shares. As such, 108,639 re-acquired shares with a cost of $1,054,874 have been reclassified to common stock and additional paid-in capital.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


