FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20070417072641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 17, 2007, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 17, 2007
 
 

HOPKINTON, Mass.  April 17, 2007  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today reported record first-quarter revenue and strong profit growth. Highlights of the quarter included increased demand for VMware virtual infrastructure solutions and RSA information security software and accelerating growth in the company's Asia-Pacific and Japan operations.
Total consolidated revenue for the first quarter of 2007 was $2.98 billion, 17% higher than the $2.55 billion reported for the first quarter of 2006.
GAAP net income for the first quarter of 2007 was $312.6 million or $0.15 per diluted share, which included a $0.01 per diluted share tax benefit. GAAP earnings per diluted share for the first quarter was 36% higher than the GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.11 reported for the year-ago period.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "EMC is off to a solid start in 2007. Customers around the globe continue to embrace our information infrastructure solutions to help store, protect, optimize and leverage their corporate information. We have an established leadership position in the areas of the IT market that CIOs prioritize most. Our first-quarter performance and our focus on integration and execution place us firmly on track to meet our financial targets for 2007."
Tucci continued, "For more than two decades, EMC has been the trusted caretaker of information, partnering with the world's largest companies and government institutions. Our greatest opportunity and competitive advantages lie in the value realized by our customers when our products come together in a unified information infrastructure to solve today's information management issues, better leverage information's value and reduce the costs associated with its explosive growth."
Compared with the first quarter of 2006, EMC systems revenue, which represents 44% of total first-quarter revenue, increased 6%; software license and maintenance revenue, which represents 40% of total revenue, increased 29%; and professional services, systems maintenance and other services revenue, which represents 16% of total revenue, grew by 21%. First-quarter revenue from North America increased 16% compared with the same period a year ago, and represents 58% of total reported revenue. First-quarter revenue from customers outside of North
America grew 18% year-over-year, driven by strong double-digit revenue growth in Europe, Middle East and Africa, and across the Asia-Pacific region.
Tucci continued, "I am pleased with the improvements in our Asia-Pacific and Japan operations. After strengthening our executive management team in the region about a year ago, our business in that part of the world is back on track, delivering first-quarter revenue growth of nearly 30%. A strong focus on execution and a reinvigorated partner strategy have helped our business in the APJ region expand significantly faster than the overall market and re-emerge as our fastest-growing geography."
David Goulden, EMC Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Looking across EMC's lines of business and major geographies, we are pleased with our first-quarter performance and our balanced systems, software and services revenue mix. The breadth, quality and diversity of our information infrastructure portfolio is differentiating EMC in the marketplace and strengthening our financial model. We are on pace to grow as fast or faster than the major markets we serve and to gain share of our expanding $60 billion worldwide market opportunity."
Goulden added, "During the quarter, EMC generated strong operating cash flow of $809 million, an increase of 27%, and strong free cash flow of $586 million, an increase of 37%, compared with the same period last year. We continue to believe share buybacks are an effective way to deploy our growing cash balance and return value to our shareholders. During the first quarter, we spent $489 million to buy back approximately 35 million EMC shares."
First-Quarter Highlights
EMC's Information Storage business, which includes revenue from storage systems, information management, information protection and resource management software, and related customer and professional services, reached $2.4 billion, an increase of 8% compared with the year-ago quarter. Growth in the Information Storage business reflects continued global demand for EMC's networked storage products and related professional services, for EMC's industry-leading resource management and file virtualization software, and for EMC's comprehensive approach to information protection and recovery management.
VMware, an EMC subsidiary, again achieved record quarterly revenue, growing sales 95% year-over-year to $256 million during the first quarter and placing the company's revenue on an annualized run rate of more than $1 billion. VMware showed continued growth as organizations of various sizes and across numerous industries increasingly standardize on VMware virtual infrastructure for server consolidation and containment, software lifecycle automation, business continuity and desktop manageability and security. VMware and its products received numerous industry accolades during the quarter: VMware Infrastructure 3 received the " Technology of the year Award," the SearchWinComputing. com "Disaster Recovery Product of the Year Award" and the "Best of the New Data Center Award"; VMware Lab Manager won the 2007 Jolt Product Excellence Award; and named VMware a "top company to watch" in 2007.
InfoWorld
Network World
Linux Magazine
In the first quarter, EMC announced its intention to sell approximately 10% of VMware via an initial public offering (IPO) of newly issued VMware stock. EMC expects the IPO will unlock more of VMware's value for EMC shareholders, strengthen VMware's ability to retain and attract the software industry's top talent, and reinforce EMC's commitment to VMware's open platform strategy.
 
EMC's Content Management and Archiving business grew first-quarter revenue to $172 million, an increase of 3% year-over-year. Maintenance and professional services revenue for the Content Management and Archiving business grew 30% year-over-year, reflecting strong license growth in 2006. Businesses around the world are relying on EMC's industry-leading content management and archiving solutions for a robust, unified repository, as well as for content and process services to automate their entire business process, ensuring compliance and making it easier to find information within or outside the organization. In the first quarter, EMC announced the availability of the EMC Documentum Process Suite, a comprehensive business process management (BPM) solution for analyzing, modeling, orchestrating and optimizing a wide range of enterprise processes involving people, systems, content and data. The introduction marks the integration of the software gained from EMC's June 2006 acquisition of Proactivity Inc., with EMC's existing Documentum business process management capabilities.
Information Security revenues for the first quarter  the second full quarter of operation for RSA, the Security Division of EMC  grew 25% to $120 million compared with the results reported by the division's constituent companies (RSA Security and Network Intelligence) in the year-ago period. During the quarter, the division attracted more than 1,200 new customers. These results reflect the value of the combined EMC and RSA technology portfolios and RSA's sustained strength within the enterprise, where the focus on identity assurance and robust access controls continues to grow. In addition, the division's consumer identity protection, data security, and information and event management solutions also reported strong year-on-year growth.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at .
www.EMC.com
EMC and Documentum are registered trademarks of EMC Corporation. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc. RSA is a registered trademark of RSA Security Inc. All other trademarks used are the property of their respective owners.
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) risks associated with acquisitions and investments, including the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (iv) risks associated with the VMware IPO, including the inability to manage successfully and complete the IPO, and risks associated with trading of VMware stock if the IPO is completed; (v) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (vi) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (vii) component and product quality and availability; (viii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (ix) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (x) war or acts of terrorism; (xi) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xii) fluctuating currency exchange rates; and (xiii) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures, which are used as measures of EMC's performance or liquidity, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, measures of EMC's financial performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. EMC's non-GAAP financial measures may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how EMC defines its non-GAAP financial measures.
Where specified in the accompanying schedule entitled "Selected Non-GAAP Data For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2007," stock option expense, restricted stock expense, intangible amortization and certain tax benefits are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. In addition, where specified in the accompanying schedule entitled "Selected Non-GAAP Data For the Three Months Ended March 31, 2006," stock option expense, restricted stock expense and intangible amortization are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures.
EMC's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying schedules to gain an understanding of EMC's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects and excludes the above-listed expenses (stock option expense, restricted stock expense, intangible amortization and certain tax benefits) from its internal financial statements for purposes of its internal budgets and each reporting segment's financial goals. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by EMC's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect EMC's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. EMC's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others (a) in understanding and evaluating EMC's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does, if they so choose, and (b) in comparing in a consistent manner the Company's current financial results with the Company's past financial results.
This release also includes disclosures regarding free cash flow which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software development costs. For the first quarter of 2007, free cash flow equals $586.3 million and is calculated as follows: net cash provided by operating activities (as defined by GAAP) of $808.7 million minus additions to property plant and equipment of $170.5 million minus capitalized software development costs of $51.9 million. For the first quarter of 2006, free cash flow equals $427.8 million and is calculated as follows: net cash provided by operating activities (as defined by GAAP) of $637.2 million minus additions to property plant and equipment of $160.5 million minus capitalized software development costs of $48.9 million. EMC uses free cash flow, among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Management believes that information regarding free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase shares, service debt and fund ongoing operations. As free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
All of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures have limitations. Specifically, the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock option expense, restricted stock expense, intangible amortization and certain tax benefits, do not include all items of income and expense that affect EMC's operations. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and with respect to the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation, intangible amortization and certain tax charges and benefits, do not reflect any benefit that such items may confer on EMC. Management compensates for these limitations by also considering EMC's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


