FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20070813163120.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On August 9, 2007, Alfred M. Zeien resigned from the Board of Directors of EMC Corporation ("EMC" or the "Company") and all Committees thereof, effective immediately, for health reasons. Mr. Zeien did not advise the Company of any disagreement on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices.
On August 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of EMC appointed Michael W. Brown to the Audit Committee of the Board to fill the vacancy resulting from Mr. Zeien's resignation.
A copy of the press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Zeien from the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
On August 9, 2007, the Board of Directors of EMC elected Edmund F. Kelly as a member of the Board, effective immediately, to fill the vacancy resulting from Mr. Zeien's resignation. Mr. Kelly will not join any Committees of the Board at this time.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Kelly to the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
The information in the Exhibits attached to this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
99.1    Press release of EMC Corporation dated August 13, 2007
99.2    Press release of EMC Corporation dated August 13, 2007
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
EMC CORPORATION
By:
/s/ Paul T. Dacier
Paul T. Dacier
Executive Vice President and
General Counsel
Date: August 13, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CONTACT: Dave Farmer                    
508-293-7206                  
farmer_dave@emc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOPKINTON, Mass.  August 13, 2007  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today announced that Alfred M. Zeien, a member of its Board of Directors since 1999, has resigned for health reasons. Mr. Zeien, 77, is the retired Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of The Gillette Company.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "On behalf of EMC, I extend our utmost gratitude to Al for his unparalleled wisdom, dedication and guidance over the years. He will be sorely missed, and we wish him all the best."
EMC also announced (see separate release) the election of Edmund "Ted" F. Kelly to its Board of Directors. Mr. Kelly is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Mutual Group and fills the vacancy created by Mr. Zeien's departure.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at . For more information about EMC's corporate governance practices, visit .
www.EMC.com
www.EMC.com/about/governance

Exhibit 99.2
CONTACT: Dave Farmer                    
508-293-7206                  
farmer_dave@emc.com
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
HOPKINTON, Mass.  August 13, 2007  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today announced the election of Edmund "Ted" F. Kelly to its Board of Directors. Mr. Kelly is the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Mutual Group, a Boston-based diversified global insurer and the nation's sixth-largest property and casualty insurer with more than $88 billion in consolidated assets.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "EMC is very fortunate to have Ted Kelly as our newest board member. As part of the company's on-going search process, the EMC Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the EMC Board of Directors chose Ted after thorough discussions with numerous highly qualified candidates. An active Fortune 500 CEO, Ted brings a wealth of complex management, worldwide operational and financial expertise to EMC's strong board. We look forward to his significant contributions toward making EMC an even more successful and dynamic global leader for our shareholders, employees and customers."
Mr. Kelly, 62, was elected Chairman of Liberty Mutual in April of 2000. He joined Liberty Mutual in 1992 as President and Chief Operating Officer, and was elected Chief Executive Officer in 1998.
Mr. Kelly has been a member of the Board of Directors of the Liberty Mutual Group since 1992. He is also a member of the Board of Governors of the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America; a member of the boards of the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation, the American Red Cross of Massachusetts Bay, the Boston Private Industry Council, the American Ireland Fund, the Insurance Information Institute; and he serves on various other community and education boards. In addition, Mr. Kelly is a Fellow of the Society of Actuaries and a member of the American Academy of Actuaries.
Born in Ireland, Mr. Kelly graduated from Queen's University in Belfast and obtained his Ph.D. in mathematics at Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at . For more information about EMC's corporate governance practices, visit .
www.EMC.com
www.EMC.com/about/governance


