FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20071130152255.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On November 28, 2007, EMC Corporation ("EMC") entered into an employment arrangement with Joseph M. Tucci, its Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. Under the arrangement, Mr. Tucci will continue as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EMC until at least December 31, 2010. During the term of the arrangement, Mr. Tucci will continue to receive an annual base salary of $1,000,000 and a target bonus of $1,440,000.
At Mr. Tucci's request, he received no equity awards in 2007 so that the allocated equity awards, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") and consistent with its well-articulated compensation objectives, could be issued to certain other members of EMC's senior leadership team in recognition of the extraordinary job they performed in creating shareholder value (see Item 8.01 below). The Board of Directors will again review the appropriateness of an equity grant for Mr. Tucci in 2008, but no sooner than the third quarter.
Under the employment arrangement, if Mr. Tucci's employment is terminated, he will receive the following:
 
 
 
The foregoing description of Mr. Tucci's employment arrangement is qualified in all respects by reference to the employment arrangement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein.
On November 28, 2007, EMC entered into an amended change in control agreement with each of Mr. Tucci, William J. Teuber, Jr., Vice Chairman, David I. Goulden, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and David A. Donatelli, Executive Vice President and President of EMC's Storage Division. Other executive officers have also entered or will soon be entering into amended change in control agreements (collectively, the "Amended CIC Agreements"). The Amended CIC Agreements will be effective as of December 31, 2007.
The Amended CIC Agreements provide benefits only if there is both a change in control and the executive's employment is terminated without cause or the executive terminates his employment for good reason, in each case, within twenty-four months following a change in control. The Amended CIC Agreements also incorporate the following material changes:
 
 
The foregoing description of the Amended CIC Agreements is qualified in all respects by reference to the form of Amended CIC Agreement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On November 28, 2007, the Compensation Committee approved the grant of equity awards to certain executive officers, including Messrs. Teuber, Goulden and Donatelli under the Amended and Restated EMC Corporation 2003 Stock Plan. Mr. Teuber received 105,000 non-qualified stock options and 180,000 restricted stock units. Messrs. Goulden and Donatelli each received 80,000 non-qualified stock options and 160,000 restricted stock units. In furtherance of EMC's commitment to pay-for-performance, 60% of the total number of shares awarded to each individual is performance-based and will vest only if 2008 performance targets approved by the Board of Directors are met.
On November 28, 2007, the Compensation Committee also determined that effective January 1, 2008, no tax gross-ups will be provided to executive officers for any expenses such as personal use of company aircraft and executive physicals.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: November 30, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Mr. Joseph M. Tucci
[address]
Dear Joe:
This is to confirm our understanding regarding your continued role as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of EMC Corporation ("EMC"). As you know, the Board of Directors believes that your continuity of service as Chairman and CEO will benefit both the company and its shareholders. EMC is therefore pleased to agree to the following arrangement:
1. You will continue in the role of Chairman and CEO through at least December 31, 2010.
2. You will continue to work with the Board of Directors on the management succession development program that is currently underway.
3. Your annual cash compensation through 2010 will consist of a base salary of $1,000,000 and a target incentive bonus payment of $1,440,000.
4. At your request, you have received no equity awards in 2007. No sooner than the third quarter of 2008, the Board of Directors will review the desirability of an equity grant.
5. During the term of this arrangement, all of your health, welfare and other benefits will continue, according to applicable EMC policies.
6. Your Change in Control Agreement dated November 28, 2007 will remain in effect during the term of this arrangement and you will continue to receive any benefits as applicable under that agreement.
7. In the event your employment at EMC terminates prior to December 31, 2010 (not due to a Change in Control (as defined in your Change in Control Agreement)):
(a) If you leave voluntarily, you will receive no further base salary payments and will receive your target incentive bonus payment prorated for the period for which you have worked.
(b) If you are terminated by EMC without "cause" (as defined in your Change in Control Agreement), EMC will pay you base salary and target incentive bonus payments equivalent to one year's cash compensation described in Paragraph 3 above, to be paid out over the remaining term of this arrangement or over an eighteen month period, whichever is longer (the "Salary Continuation Period"). Consistent with the treatment of other senior executives, during the Salary Continuation Period, EMC will continue your benefits and any equity you hold as of the date of termination will continue to vest. If any of your equity grants would, by their terms, continue to
November 28, 2007
Page 2
 
vest for longer than the Salary Continuation Period, they will continue to vest according to the terms of the applicable plan and grant. To the extent required to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code, payments will be delayed until the six-month anniversary of your termination of employment without "cause."
(c) If you are terminated by EMC for "cause", you will receive no further base salary payments and no further incentive bonus payments.
In the event of any termination of your employment under this Paragraph 7, you will receive no further severance payment other than as described above.
8. EMC and you agree that this arrangement will be governed by and construed in accordance with Massachusetts law.
9. All payments under this arrangement are subject to all applicable tax withholdings.
10. This arrangement will be binding on the Company's successors and assigns.
If this arrangement meets with your approval, please sign this letter below.
The Board and I look forward to your continued leadership over the next several years.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
THIS AGREEMENT, dated [                    ], is made by and between EMC Corporation (the "Company"), and [                                ] (the "Executive") residing at [Address].
WHEREAS, the Company considers the establishment and maintenance of a sound and vital management to be essential to protecting and enhancing the best interests of the Company and its stockholders; and
WHEREAS, the Executive has made and is expected to make, due to the Executive's intimate knowledge of the business and affairs of the Company, its policies, methods, personnel, and problems, a significant contribution to the profitability, growth, and financial strength of the Company; and
WHEREAS, the Company, as a publicly held corporation, recognizes that the possibility of a Change in Control may exist, and that such possibility and the uncertainty and questions which it may raise among management may result in the departure or distraction of the Executive in the performance of the Executive's duties, to the detriment of the Company and its stockholders; and
WHEREAS, it is in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to reinforce and encourage the continued attention and dedication of management personnel, including the Executive, to their assigned duties without distraction and to ensure the continued availability to the Company of the Executive in the event of a Change in Control;
THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and other respective covenants and agreements of the parties herein contained, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
5.1 If the Executive fails to perform the Executive's full-time duties with the Company following a Change in Control as a result of incapacity due to physical or mental illness, during any period when the Executive so fails to perform the Company shall pay the Base Salary to the Executive, together with all compensation and benefits payable to the Executive under the terms of any compensation or benefit plan, program or arrangement (other than the Company's short- or long-term disability plan, as applicable, but including any bonus or incentive plan) maintained by the Company during such period, until the Executive resumes the full time performance of such duties or the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company for Disability.
5.2 If the Executive's employment shall be terminated for any reason following a Change in Control, the Company shall pay the Base Salary to the Executive through the Date of Termination, together with all compensation and benefits payable to the Executive through the Date of Termination under the terms of the Company's compensation and benefit plans, programs or arrangements as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect immediately prior to the first occurrence of an event or circumstance constituting Good Reason.
5.3 Except as expressly provided herein, if the Executive's employment shall be terminated for any reason following a Change in Control, the Company shall pay to the Executive the Executive's normal post-termination compensation and benefits as such payments become due. Such post-termination compensation and benefits shall be determined under, and paid in accordance with, the Company's retirement, insurance and other compensation or benefit plans, programs and arrangements as in effect immediately prior to the Date of Termination or, if more favorable to the Executive, as in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of the first event or circumstance constituting Good Reason.
5.4 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any equity plan or arrangement of the Company or any agreement between the Company and the Executive, upon
 
the occurrence of a Change in Control, any outstanding stock option, restricted stock or other equity or equity-based award granted to the Executive shall become immediately vested and exercisable if the Executive becomes entitled to the Severance Payments described in Section 6.1. From and after the occurrence of a Change in Control, the "detrimental activity" provisions in the Company's equity plans shall no longer apply to any award issued to the Executive under such plans.
 
6.1 If the Executive's employment is terminated within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control, other than (a) by the Company for Cause, (b) by reason of death or Disability, or (c) by the Executive without Good Reason, then the Company shall, subject to Section 15 hereof, pay the Executive the amounts, and provide the Executive the benefits, described in this Section 6.1 ("Severance Payments") and Section 6.2, in addition to any payments and benefits to which the Executive is entitled under Section 5. For purposes of this Agreement, the Executive's employment shall be deemed to have been terminated within twenty-four (24) months following a Change in Control and during the Term by the Company without Cause or by the Executive with Good Reason, if (i) the Executive's employment is terminated by the Company without Cause during a Potential Change in Control Period, or (ii) the Executive terminates Executive's employment for Good Reason during a Potential Change in Control Period. In the event that the Executive's employment is terminated in the manner described in the preceding sentence, a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred immediately preceding such termination for purposes of Section 5.4 hereof. Except as described above or in Section 9.1, the Executive shall not be entitled to benefits pursuant to this Section 6.1 unless a Change in Control shall have occurred during the Term.
(A) The Company shall pay to the Executive a lump sum severance payment, in cash, equal to 2.99 times the sum of (a) the Base Salary, and (b) the sum of the target annual bonus available to the Executive pursuant to each of the Company's annual bonus plans or any successor plans (but excluding any special performance or incentive plan) in which the Executive participates in respect of the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (without giving effect to any event or circumstance constituting Good Reason), assuming for this purpose attainment of 100% of any applicable target; provided, however, that if the applicable target bonus would have been pro-rated for a partial fiscal year, such target bonus shall be recalculated for purposes of this Section 6.1(A) to equal the amount that for which the Executive would have been eligible for the entire fiscal year.
(B) For the thirty-six (36) month period immediately following the Date of Termination, the Company shall arrange to provide the Executive and Executive's dependents life, disability, accident and health insurance benefits substantially similar to those provided to the Executive and Executive's dependents immediately prior to the Date of Termination or, if more favorable to the Executive, those provided to the Executive and Executive's dependents immediately prior to the first occurrence of an event or circumstance constituting Good Reason, at no greater after-tax cost to the Executive than the cost to the Executive immediately prior to such date or
 
occurrence. If, at the end of the thirty-six (36) month period following the Date of Termination, the Executive has not previously become eligible to receive comparable benefits from a new employer or pursuant to a government-sponsored health insurance or health care program, then the Company shall arrange, at its sole cost and expense, to enable the Executive to convert coverage for the Executive and the Executive's dependents being provided hereunder to individual policies or program, if applicable, upon the same terms as other former employees of the Company may apply for such conversion. The cost of providing the benefits set forth in this Section 6.1(B) shall be in addition to (and shall not reduce) the Severance Payments. Benefits otherwise receivable by the Executive pursuant to this Section 6.1(B) shall be reduced to the extent the Executive becomes eligible to receive comparable benefits from a new employer or pursuant to a government-sponsored health insurance or health care program. Unless the Executive agrees to another method, the coverage described in this Section 6.1(B) will be provided through a third party insurer.
(C) The Company shall pay to the Executive a prorated portion of the Executive's bonus compensation for the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs (assuming that any applicable performance objectives were achieved at the target level of performance and without giving effect to any event or circumstance constituting Good Reason) calculated by multiplying (A) the target amount of such bonus compensation by (B) a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the applicable fiscal year through the date of termination and the denominator of which is 365. The foregoing payment shall be reduced by the sum of any quarterly, semi-annual and other partial year bonus payments previously paid to the Executive in respect of the fiscal year in which the Date of Termination occurs.
6.2 .
Gross Up
(A) Subject to Section 6.2(F), whether or not the Executive becomes entitled to the Severance Payments, if any of the payments or benefits received or to be received by the Executive (whether pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other plan, arrangement or agreement with the Company, any Person whose actions result in a Change in Control or any Person affiliated with the Company or such Person) (all such payments and benefits, excluding the Gross-Up Payment, being hereinafter referred to as the "Total Payments") will be subject to the Excise Tax, the Company shall pay to the Executive an additional amount (the "Gross-Up Payment") such that the net amount retained by the Executive, after deduction of any Excise Tax on the Total Payments and any federal, state and local income and employment taxes and Excise Tax upon the Gross-Up Payment, shall be equal to the Total Payments.
(B) For purposes of determining whether any of the Total Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amount of such Excise Tax, (i) all of the Total Payments shall be treated as "parachute payments" (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) of the Code) unless, in the opinion of tax counsel ("Tax Counsel") reasonably acceptable to the Executive and selected by the accounting firm which was, immediately prior to the Change in Control, the Company's independent auditor (the "Auditor"), such
 
payments or benefits (in whole or in part) do not constitute parachute payments, including by reason of section 280G(b)(4)(A) of the Code, (ii) all "excess parachute payments" within the meaning of section 280G(b)(l) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax unless, in the opinion of Tax Counsel, such excess parachute payments (in whole or in part) represent reasonable compensation for services actually rendered (within the meaning of section 280G(b)(4)(B) of the Code) in excess of the Base Amount allocable to such reasonable compensation, or are otherwise not subject to the Excise Tax, and (iii) the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Auditor in accordance with the principles of sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code. If there has not been a Date of Termination with respect to the Executive, the Company shall cause the Gross-Up Payment to be calculated within 30 days following the date upon which there occurs a change in ownership or control of the Company for purposes of section 280G of the Code.
(C) Upon the Executive's request, the Company shall promptly provide the Executive with a written statement setting forth the manner in which calculations were made pursuant to this Section 6.2 including, without limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has received from Tax Counsel or other advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the statement).
(D) In the event that the Excise Tax is finally determined to be less than the amount taken into account hereunder in calculating the Gross-Up Payment, the Executive shall repay to the Company, within five (5) business days following the time that the amount of such reduction in the Excise Tax is finally determined, the portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction (plus that portion of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to the Excise Tax and federal, state and local income and employment taxes imposed on the Gross-Up Payment being repaid by the Executive, to the extent that such repayment results in a reduction in the Excise Tax and a dollar-for-dollar reduction in the Executive's taxable income and wages for purposes of federal, state and local income and employment taxes), plus interest on the amount of such repayment at 120% of the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code. In the event that the Excise Tax is determined to exceed the amount taken into account hereunder in calculating the Gross-Up Payment (including by reason of any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall make an additional Gross-Up Payment in respect of such excess (plus any interest, penalties or additions payable by the Executive with respect to such excess) within five (5) business days following the time that the amount of such excess is finally determined, provided that such additional payment shall only be made to the extent that the payment (or the right to the payment) does not result in taxation under section 409A of the Code, including pursuant to Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(d) (in which case the payment shall be made in no event later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the calculation of the Executive's excise tax liability under section 280G of the Code may be calculated). The Executive and the Company shall each reasonably cooperate with the other in connection with any administrative or judicial proceedings concerning the existence or amount of liability for
 
Excise Tax with respect to the Total Payments.
(E) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 6.2, if it shall be determined that the Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment with respect to a Change in Control occurring prior to December 31, 2009, but the Total Payments do not exceed 110% of the greatest amount that could be paid to the Executive such that the receipt of Total Payments would not give rise to any Excise Tax (the "Reduced Amount"), then no Gross-Up Payment shall be made to the Executive and the Total Payments, in the aggregate, shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount. If a reduction is required, the reduction shall be applied to the payments otherwise payable pursuant to Section 6.1(A) hereof.
(F) If the Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment, the amount of the Gross-Up Payment shall be reduced by the portion of the Gross-Up Payment that is attributable to equity awards granted to the Executive by the Company on and after August 10, 2007 ("Post 8/10/2007 Equity Awards"). The portion of the Gross-Up Payment that is attributable to Post 8/10/2007 Equity Awards shall be determined by multiplying the Gross-Up Payment by a fraction, the numerator of which is the aggregate amount of "parachute payments" within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2) attributable to the Executive's Post 8/10/2007 Equity Awards and the denominator of which is the aggregate of all of the Executive's "parachute payments" within the meaning of section 280G(b)(2). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if as a result of the application of this Section 6.1(E) the Reduced Amount (reduced by applicable taxes) exceeds the sum of the Total Payments and the Gross-Up Payment (such sum reduced by applicable taxes), then the Executive shall not receive a Gross-Up Payment and the Total Payments shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount. In such case, the reduction to the Total Payments shall be applied to the payments otherwise payable pursuant to Section 6.1(A) hereof.
(G) The Executive will not be entitled to a Gross-Up Payment under this Agreement with respect to any change in ownership or control of the Company (for purposes of section 280G of the Code) occurring on or after December 31, 2009, but shall continue to remain entitled to a Gross-Up Payment with respect to any change in ownership or control of the Company (for purposes of section 280G of the Code) occurring prior to December 31, 2009 in accordance with this Section 6.2. In the event (1) the Executive's entitlement to a Gross-Up Payment is eliminated pursuant to this Section 6.2(G) and (2) the Reduced Amount (reduced by applicable taxes) exceeds the net amount of the Total Payments which would be retained by the Executive after deduction of any Excise Tax (and all other applicable taxes) on the Total Payments, the Total Payments shall be reduced to the Reduced Amount. If a reduction is required, the reduction shall be applied to the payments otherwise payable pursuant to Section 6.1(A) hereof.
6.3 Subject to Section 14.3(A), the payments provided in subsection (A) and (C) of Section 6.1 and in Section 6.2 shall be made not later than the eighth day following the Release Deadline (or, in the case of Section 6.2, if there is no Date of Termination, then the fifth day following the date on which the Gross-Up Payment is calculated for purposes of Section
 
6.2), , , that if the amounts of such payments cannot be finally determined on or before such day, the Company shall pay to the Executive on such day an estimate, as determined in good faith by the Company or, in the case of payments under Section 6.2, in accordance with Section 6.2, of the minimum amount of such payments to which the Executive is clearly entitled and shall pay the remainder of such payments (together with interest on the unpaid remainder (or on all such payments to the extent the Company fails to make such payments when due) at 120% of the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code) as soon as the amount thereof can be determined, but in no event later than the thirtieth (30th) day after the Release Deadline (also subject to Section 14.3(A)). In the event that the amount of the estimated payments exceeds the amount subsequently determined to have been due, such excess shall constitute a loan by the Company to the Executive, payable on the fifth (5th) business day after demand by the Company (together with interest at 120% of the rate provided in section 1274(b)(2)(B) of the Code). At the time that payments are made under this Agreement, the Company shall provide the Executive with a written statement setting forth the manner in which such payments were calculated and the basis for such calculations including, without limitation, any opinions or other advice the Company has received from Tax Counsel, the Auditor or other advisors or consultants (and any such opinions or advice which are in writing shall be attached to the statement).
provided
however
6.4 The Company shall pay to the Executive all legal fees and expenses incurred by the Executive in disputing in good faith any issue hereunder relating to the termination of the Executive's employment, in seeking in good faith to obtain or enforce any benefit or right provided by this Agreement or in connection with any tax audit or proceeding to the extent attributable to the application of section 4999 of the Code to any payment or benefit provided hereunder. Such payments shall be made within five (5) business days after delivery of the Executive's written requests for payment accompanied with such evidence of fees and expenses incurred as the Company reasonably may require. The Executive's reimbursement rights described in this Section 6.4 shall remain in effect for the life of the Executive, provided, that, in order for the Executive to be entitled to reimbursement hereunder, the Executive must submit the written reimbursement request described above within 180 days following the date upon which the applicable fee or expense is incurred.
 
7.1 . After a Change in Control, any purported termination of the Executive's employment (other than by reason of death) shall be communicated by written Notice of Termination from one party hereto to the other party hereto in accordance with Section 10. For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination" shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail any facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive's employment under the provision so indicated. Further, a Notice of Termination for Cause is required to include a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds (2/3) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board which was called and held for the purpose of considering such termination (after reasonable notice to the Executive and an opportunity for the Executive, together with the Executive's counsel, to be heard before the Board) finding that, in the good faith opinion of the Board, the Executive was guilty of conduct set forth in clause (i), (ii) or (iii) of the definition of
Notice of Termination
 
Cause herein, and specifying the particulars thereof in detail.
7.2 . "Date of Termination," with respect to any purported termination of the Executive's employment after a Change in Control, shall mean (i) if the Executive's employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after Notice of Termination is given (provided that the Executive shall not have returned to the full-time performance of the Executive's duties during such thirty (30) day period), and (ii) if the Executive's employment is terminated for any other reason, the date specified in the Notice of Termination (which, in the case of a termination by the Company, shall not be less than ninety (90) days (except in the case of a termination for Cause) and, in the case of a termination by the Executive, shall not be less than fifteen (15) days nor more than sixty (60) days, respectively, from the date such Notice of Termination is given).
Date of Termination
7.3 . If within ten (10) days after any Notice of Termination is given, or, if later, prior to the Date of Termination (as determined without regard to this Section 7.3), the party receiving such Notice of Termination notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the termination, the Date of Termination shall be extended until the earlier of (i) the date on which the Term ends or (ii) the date on which the dispute is finally resolved, either by mutual written agreement of the parties or by a final judgment, order or decree of an arbitrator or a court of competent jurisdiction (which is not appealable or with respect to which the time for appeal therefrom has expired and no appeal has been perfected); , , that the Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute given by the Executive only if such notice is given in good faith and the Executive pursues the resolution of such dispute with reasonable diligence.
Dispute Concerning Termination
provided
however
7.4 . If the Date of Termination is extended in accordance with Section 7.3, the Company shall continue to pay the Executive the full compensation in effect when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given (including, but not limited to, the Base Salary) and continue the Executive as a participant in all compensation, benefit and insurance plans in which the Executive was participating when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given, until the Date of Termination, as determined in accordance with Section 7.3. Amounts paid under this Section 7.4 are in addition to all other amounts due under this Agreement (other than those due under Section 5.2) and shall not be offset against or reduce any other amounts due under this Agreement.
Compensation During Dispute
 
 
 
9.1 In addition to any obligations imposed by law upon any successor to the Company, the Company shall require any successor (whether direct or indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform it if no such succession had taken place. Failure of the Company to obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle the Executive to compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as the Executive would be entitled to hereunder if the Executive were to terminate the Executive's employment for Good Reason after a Change in Control and during the Term, except that, for purposes of implementing the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be deemed the Date of Termination.
9.2 This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive's personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees. If the Executive shall die while any amount would still be payable to the Executive hereunder (other than amounts which, by their terms, terminate upon the death of the Executive) if the Executive had continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement to the executors, personal representatives or administrators of the Executive's estate.
 
 
 
 
 
 
14.1 All claims by the Executive for benefits under this Agreement shall be directed to and determined by the Board and shall be in writing. Any denial by the Board of a claim for benefits under this Agreement shall be delivered to the Executive in writing and shall set forth the specific reasons for the denial and the specific provisions of this Agreement relied upon. The Board shall afford a reasonable opportunity to the Executive for a review of the decision denying a claim and shall further allow the Executive to appeal to the Board a decision of the Board within sixty (60) days after notification by the Board that the Executive's claim has been denied.
14.2 Any further dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in Boston, Massachusetts in accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect; , , that the evidentiary standards set forth in this Agreement shall apply. Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having jurisdiction. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Executive shall be entitled to seek specific performance of the Executive's right to be paid until the Date of Termination during the pendency of any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this Agreement.
provided
however
14.3 It is the intention of the Company and the Executive that this Agreement not result in taxation of the Executive under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations and guidance promulgated thereunder and that the Agreement shall be construed in accordance with such intention. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Company and the Executive agree as follows:
(A) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if the Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code) with respect to the Company, any amounts (or benefits) otherwise payable to or in respect of him under this Agreement pursuant to the Executive's termination of employment with the Company shall be delayed, to the extent required so that taxes are not imposed on the Executive pursuant to Section 409A of the Code, and shall be paid upon the earliest date permitted by Section 409A(a)(2) of the Code;
 
(B) For purposes of this Agreement, the Executive's employment with the Company will not be treated as terminated unless and until such termination of employment constitutes a "separation from service" for purposes of Section 409A of the Code;
(C) To the extent necessary to comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and the guidance issued thereunder (1) reimbursements to or tax gross-ups of the Executive as a result of the operation of Section 6.1(B), Section 6.2 or Section 6.4 hereof shall be made not later than the end of the calendar year following the year in which the reimbursable expense is incurred or applicable tax is paid and shall otherwise be made in a manner that complies with the requirements of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-3(i)(l)(iv), (2) if Executive is a "specified employee" (within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code), any reimbursements to the Executive as a result of the operation of such sections with respect to a reimbursable event within the first six months following the Date of Termination which are required to be delayed pursuant to Section 14.1(A) shall be made as soon as practicable following the date which is six months and one day following the Date of Termination (subject to clause (A) of this sentence); and
(D) If the provisions of Section 5.4 are applicable to an equity or equity-based award subject to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code and the immediate payment of the award contemplated by Section 5.4 would result in taxation under Section 409A, payment of such awards shall be made upon the earliest date upon which such payment may be made without resulting in taxation under Section 409A of the Code.
 
 
16.1 "Affiliate" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 12b-2 promulgated under Section 12 of the Exchange Act.
16.2 "Auditor" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.
16.3 "Base Amount" shall have the meaning set forth in section 280G(b)(3) of the Code.
16.4 "Base Salary" shall mean the annual base salary in effect for the Executive immediately prior to a Change in Control, as such salary may be increased from time to time during the Term (in which case such increased amount shall be the Base Salary for purposes
 
hereof), but without giving effect to any reduction thereto.
16.5 "Beneficial Owner" shall have the meaning set forth in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act.
16.6 "Board" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company.
16.7 "Cause" for termination by the Company of the Executive's employment shall mean (i) the willful and continued failure by the Executive (other than any such failure resulting from (A) the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, (B) any such actual or anticipated failure after the issuance of a Notice of Termination by the Executive for Good Reason or (C) the Company's active or passive obstruction of the performance of the Executive's duties and responsibilities) to perform substantially the duties and responsibilities of the Executive's position with the Company after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Executive by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that the Executive has not substantially performed such duties or responsibilities; (ii) the conviction of the Executive by a court of competent jurisdiction for felony criminal conduct; or (iii) the willful engaging by the Executive in fraud or dishonesty which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its reputation, monetarily or otherwise. No act, or failure to act, on the Executive's part shall be deemed "willful" unless committed, or omitted by the Executive in bad faith and without reasonable belief that the Executive's act or failure to act was in, or not opposed to, the best interest of the Company. It is also expressly understood that the Executive's attention to matters not directly related to the business of the Company shall not provide a basis for termination for Cause so long as the Board has approved the Executive's engagement in such activities.
16.8 A "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if any of the events set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred:
(A) any Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 25% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities, excluding any Person who becomes such a Beneficial Owner in connection with a transaction described in Section 16.8(C)(i);
(B) the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors then serving: individuals who, on the date hereof, constitute the Board and any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved or recommended by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then in office who either were directors on the date hereof or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved or recommended;
(C) there is consummated a merger or consolidation of the Company or
 
any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than (i) a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger or consolidation continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or (ii) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities Beneficially Owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates) representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(D) the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or there is consummated an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets, other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to an entity, at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale.
Notwithstanding anything in the foregoing to the contrary, no Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred for purposes of this Agreement by virtue of any transaction which results in the Executive, or a group of Persons which includes the Executive, acquiring, directly or indirectly, 25% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities.
16.9 "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
16.10 "Company" shall mean EMC Corporation and, except in determining under Section 16.8 whether or not any Change in Control of the Company has occurred, shall include any successor to its business and/or assets which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by operation of law, or otherwise.
16.11 "Date of Termination" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.2.
16.12 "Disability" shall be deemed the reason for the termination by the Company of the Executive's employment, if, as a result of the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness, the Executive shall have been absent from the full-time performance of the Executive's duties with the Company for a period of one hundred twenty (120), the Company shall have given the Executive a Notice of Termination for Disability, and, within thirty (30) days after such Notice of Termination is given, the Executive shall not have returned to the full-time performance of the Executive's duties. Any question as to the existence of the Executive's Disability upon which the Executive and the Company cannot agree shall be determined by a qualified independent physician selected by the Executive (or, if the Executive
 
is unable to make such selection, it shall be made by any adult member of the Executive's immediate family), and approved by the Company. The determination of such physician made in writing to the Company and to the Executive shall be final and conclusive for all purposes of this Agreement, absent fraud.
16.13 "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended from time to time.
16.14 "Excise Tax" shall mean any excise tax imposed under section 4999 of the Code.
16.15 "Executive" shall mean the individual named in the first paragraph of this Agreement.
16.16 "Good Reason" for termination by the Executive of the Executive's employment shall mean the occurrence (without the Executive's express written consent) after any Change in Control, or prior to a Change in Control under the circumstances described in the second sentence of Section 6.1 (treating all references in subsections (A) through (F) below to a "Change in Control" as references to a "Potential Change in Control"), of any one of the following acts by the Company, or failures by the Company to act, unless, in the case of any act or failure to act described in subsection (A), (B), (C), (D), or (E) below, such act or failure to act is corrected prior to the Date of Termination specified in the Notice of Termination given in respect thereof:
(A) an adverse change in the Executive's status or position(s) as an officer of the Company as in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control, including, without limitation, any adverse change in the Executive's status or position as a result of a diminution of the Executive's duties or responsibilities (other than, if applicable, any such change directly and solely attributable to the fact that the Company is no longer publicly owned) or the assignment to the Executive of any duties or responsibilities which are inconsistent with such status or position(s), or any removal of the Executive from, or any failure to reappoint or reelect the Executive to, such position(s);
(B) a reduction in the Executive's Base Salary; or
(C) the failure by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to continue in effect any Plan in which the Executive is participating at the time of the Change in Control (or Plans providing the Executive with at least substantially similar benefits) other than as a result of the normal expiration of any such Plan in accordance with its terms as in effect at the time of the Change in Control, or the taking of any action, or the failure to act, by the Company which would adversely affect the Executive's continued participation in any of such Plans on at least as favorable a basis to the Executive as is the case on the date of the Change in Control or which would materially reduce the Executive's benefits in the future under any of such Plans or deprive the Executive of any material benefit enjoyed by the Executive at the time of the Change in Control;
 
(D) the Company requiring the Executive to be based at an office that is greater than 50 miles from where the Executive's office is located immediately prior to the Change in Control except for required travel on the Company's business to an extent substantially consistent with the business travel obligations which the Executive undertook on behalf of the Company prior to the Change in Control;
(E) any unreasonable refusal by the Company to continue to allow the Executive to attend to matters or engage in activities not directly related to the business of the Company which, prior to the Change in Control, the Executive was permitted by the Board to attend to or engage in; or
(F) any purported termination of the Executive's employment which is not effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of Section 7.1; for purposes of this Agreement, no such purported termination shall be effective.
The Executive's right to terminate the Executive's employment for Good Reason shall not be affected by the Executive's incapacity due to physical or mental illness. In order for Good Reason to exist hereunder, the Executive must provide notice to the Company of the existence of the condition or circumstance described above within 90 days of the initial existence of the condition or circumstance (or, if later, within 90 days of the Executive's becoming aware of such condition or circumstance), and the Company must have failed to cure such condition within 30 days of the receipt of such notice. Subject to the preceding sentence, the Executive's continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights with respect to, any act or failure to act constituting Good Reason hereunder.
For purposes of any determination regarding the existence of Good Reason, any good faith claim by the Executive that Good Reason exists shall be presumed to be correct unless the Company establishes to the Board by clear and convincing evidence that Good Reason does not exist.
16.17 "Gross-Up Payment" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.
16.18 "Notice of Termination" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
16.19 "Person" shall have the meaning given in Section 3(a)(9) of the Exchange Act, as modified and used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) thereof, except that such term shall not include (i) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (ii) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its Affiliates, (iii) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (iv) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
16.20 "Plan" shall mean any compensation plan such as an incentive plan, or any employee benefit plan such as a thrift, pension, profit sharing, medical, disability, accident, life insurance plan or a relocation or vacation plan or policy or any other plan, program or policy of the Company or its subsidiaries intended to benefit employees, but excluding following a Change in Control (but not during a Potential Change in Control Period) any stock option, restricted
 
stock or other stock-based plan or benefit except with respect to any awards outstanding under any such plan as of the date of the Change in Control.
16.21 "Potential Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if the event set forth in any one of the following subsections shall have occurred:
(A) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control;
(B) the Company or any Person publicly announces an intention to take or to consider taking actions which, if consummated, would constitute a Change in Control;
(C) any Person becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 15% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding securities; or
(D) the Board adopts a resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a Potential Change in Control has occurred.
16.22 "Potential Change in Control Period" shall commence upon the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control and shall lapse upon the occurrence of a Change in Control or, if earlier (i) with respect to a Potential Change in Control occurring pursuant to Section 16.21(A), immediately upon the abandonment or termination of the applicable agreement, (ii) with respect to a Potential Change in Control occurring pursuant to Section 16.21(B), immediately upon a public announcement by the applicable party that such party has abandoned its intention to take or consider taking actions which if consummated would result in a Change in Control or (iii) with respect to a Potential Change in Control occurring pursuant to Section 16.21(C) or (D), upon the one year anniversary of the occurrence of a Potential Change in Control (or such earlier date as may be determined by the Board).
16.23 "Release Deadline" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.
16.24 "Retirement" shall be deemed the reason for the termination by the Executive of the Executive's employment if such employment is terminated in accordance with the Company's retirement policy, including early retirement, generally applicable to its salaried employees.
16.25 "Severance Payments" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.1.
16.26 "Tax Counsel" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.2.
16.27 "Term" shall mean the period of time described in Section 2 (including any extension, continuation or termination described therein).
16.28 "Total Payments" shall mean those payments so described in Section 6.2.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 


