FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20070427153654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2007, David DeWalt, EMC Corporation's former Executive Vice President and President, Customer Operations and Content Management and Archive, delivered an agreement (the "Separation Agreement") to terminate Mr. DeWalt's employment with EMC effective April 1, 2007 (the "Termination Date").
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 27, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
Dear Dave:
This agreement ("Agreement") sets forth the terms and conditions of your separation from EMC Corporation.
For purposes of this Agreement, "EMC" shall be deemed to include EMC Corporation, its predecessors, successors and assigns, their parents, affiliates and subsidiaries (including any corporation controlling, controlled by or under common control with EMC), and each of their past, present and future directors, officers, stockholders, agents and employees, both individually and in their official capacities.
For good and sufficient consideration, we agree as follows:
 
By mutual agreement, your employment with EMC will terminate effective April 1, 2007 ("Termination Date"). Through the Termination Date you agree to devote your full time and efforts to the performance of your duties as assigned by senior EMC management and to continue to abide by all of EMC's policies and Business Conduct Guidelines. Effective on your Termination Date you will resign as President, EMC Customer Operations and Content Management and as Executive Vice President of EMC.
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. David DeWalt
Page 2
 
Your eligibility to participate in EMC's employee benefit plans and programs ceases effective on your Termination Date. You will be provided with information regarding your options to continue your coverage under various benefit plans including continued health coverage pursuant to COBRA.
 
 
 
 
You acknowledge that you executed a Documentum Employee Proprietary Information and Inventions Agreement ("PIIA") in April 1999, and that your obligations under the PIIA inured to the benefit of EMC as a result EMC's acquisition of Documentum pursuant to Section 10.3 of the PIIA. You agree that the terms of the PIIA are, and shall continue to be, in full force and effect and are hereby ratified, confirmed in all respects, incorporated into and made a part of this Agreement by reference.
 
In order to protect EMC's trade secrets, good will and confidential information, you agree that for the twelve (12) month period following the Termination Date you will not, either on your own behalf or on behalf of any person or entity, hire any EMC employee unless such employee left EMC's employment on or before March 29, 2007. Notwithstanding the foregoing, your hiring of Silvia Munoz will not be deemed a breach of this Agreement.
 
You shall return to EMC and all EMC property including, without limitation, all "Company Documents" as set forth in Paragraph 5 of the PIIA, all EMC equipment, corporate credit cards, office and building keys, and identification badge.
Mr. David DeWalt
Page 3
 
The Severance Agreement ("Change of Control Agreement") between EMC and you, dated July 22, 2004, shall terminate upon the date that this Agreement is fully executed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
You agree to reasonably cooperate with EMC and its legal counsel in connection with the contemplation, prosecution and defense of all existing, past and future litigation or with any other legal matter about which you have knowledge or information and to make yourself available at mutually convenient times and reasonable locations. You further agree to execute and deliver at all
Mr. David DeWalt
Page 4
times hereafter, upon the request of EMC, such instruments of transfer, resignations or other documents and take such other action, all as may be reasonably required by EMC to properly effectuate the actions contemplated by this Agreement. Your obligation to reasonably cooperate shall continue after your Termination Date. You will be reimbursed for all reasonable and necessary travel expenses incurred by you in connection with the performance of your obligations under this Paragraph.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mr. David DeWalt
Page 5
 
 
 
 


