FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20071220163121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(d)
Election of a Director
On December 19, 2007, the Board of Directors of EMC elected Paul Sagan as a member of the Board, effective immediately, to fill a vacancy on the Board. Mr. Sagan was also appointed to the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee of the Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Sagan to the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in the Exhibit attached to this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: December 20, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.Thursday, December 20, 2007  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today announced the election of Paul Sagan to its Board of Directors. Mr. Sagan is the President and Chief Executive Officer of Boston-based Akamai Technologies, Inc., the leading global service provider for accelerating content and applications online, and a recent addition to 2007 list of fastest-growing companies. Mr. Sagan will also serve as a member of EMC's Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
Fortune's
"We're extremely excited to have Paul Sagan join EMC's board and serve on our Mergers and Acquisitions Committee," said Joe Tucci, EMC's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "EMC's Board of Directors and its Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee regularly evaluate highly-qualified candidates for our Board. Paul's success as CEO of a fast-growing, industry-leading S&P 500 company combined with his extensive knowledge of internet-based technologies and business models make him an ideal and strong addition to our Board. We look forward to Paul's significant contributions helping to advance EMC's global leadership."
Mr. Sagan, 48, joined Akamai in October 1998, was elected to the company's Board of Directors in January 2005, and became Chief Executive Officer in April 2005. During his career, he has led visionary technology and media companies; consulted with the World Economic Forum; and supported numerous corporate, civic and academic institutions.
Mr. Sagan also serves as a Director of Maven Networks and is an immediate past member of the Dow Jones & Company Board of Directors. He is a member of the Dean's Council at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University; an advisor to the MATCH charter public high school in Boston; and a member of the Presidential Advisory Council at the Berklee College of Music.
Mr. Sagan is a graduate of Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism, serves as one of the University's Trustees and is Co-Chairman of Northwestern's Medill School of Journalism Board of Advisors.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
For more information about EMC's corporate governance practices, visit www.EMC.com/about.


