FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20090123114013.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(b)
Resignation of a Director
On January 23, 2009, Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo resigned from the Board of Directors of EMC Corporation ("EMC" or the "Company") and all Committees thereof, effective immediately. Mr. Kallasvuo did not advise the Company of any disagreement on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices.
A copy of the press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Kallasvuo from the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d)
Election of a Director
On January 23, 2009, the Board of Directors of EMC elected Randolph L. Cowen as a member of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. Cowen was also appointed to the Leadership and Compensation Committee and the Mergers and Acquisitions Committee of the Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. Cowen to the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in the Exhibit attached to this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 23, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  January 23, 2009  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today announced the election of Randolph L. Cowen to its Board of Directors. Mr. Cowen is the former co-Chief Administrative Officer, Global Head of Technology and Operations and Chief Information Officer for the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Mr. Cowen will also serve as a member of EMC's Leadership and Compensation Committee and Mergers and Acquisitions Committee.
EMC also announced today that Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo, a member of its Board of Directors since 2004, has resigned due to increasing demands on his time as President and Chief Executive Officer of Nokia Corporation in this challenging global economic environment. Mr. Cowen fills the Board seat vacated by Mr. Kallasvuo.
Joe Tucci, EMC's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We're delighted to have Randy Cowen join EMC's Board. As part of an on-going governance process, EMC's Board and its Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee maintain a continuous search for outstanding director candidates. We have known Randy for many years as a significant, demanding and capable customer of EMC. His broad technology knowledge about information infrastructure and virtualization coupled with his business operations experience will make him an extremely valuable member of our Board.
"Equally," Tucci continued, "we are most grateful to Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo for his dedication and guidance over the years. As the CEO of a leading global company, Olli-Pekka brought a depth of knowledge and insight on global markets and business practices which has been of tremendous value to EMC."
Mr. Cowen, 57, joined Goldman Sachs in 1982, became a Managing Director and Partner in 1996, the Chief Information Officer in 2001, Global Head of Technology and Operations in 2004 and co-Chief Administrative Officer in 2007. He also serves on the Board of Directors of the Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) and the NYU Child Study Center.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at . For more information about EMC's corporate governance practices, visit .
www.EMC.com
www.EMC.com/about/governance


