FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20090127074244.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 27, 2009, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and full fiscal year ended December 31, 2008. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 27, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contact:    Dave Farmer
                  508-293-7206
                  Farmer_dave@emc.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  Jan. 27, 2009  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today reported fourth-quarter 2008 revenue of $4.02 billion, an increase of 8% sequentially and 5% year over year, representing an all-time EMC record for quarterly revenue.
Fourth-quarter GAAP net income was $288.0 million or $0.14 per diluted share, which includes a $0.10 restructuring charge. Fourth-quarter non-GAAP net income was $646.8 million or $0.32 per diluted share, 7% higher compared with the year-ago period.
For 2008, EMC posted total consolidated revenue of a record $14.88 billion, an increase of 12% year over year and representing EMC's sixth consecutive year of double-digit annual revenue growth. GAAP net income for 2008 was $1.35 billion or $0.64 per diluted share. Non-GAAP net income
1
for the full year was $2.16 billion or $1.04 per diluted share, an increase of 14% year over year.
During the fourth quarter, EMC generated operating cash flow of $1.1 billion and free cash flow of $775 million, each increasing 9% year over year. For the year, EMC's operating cash flow was $3.6 billion, an increase of 14% compared with 2007, and free cash flow was $2.6 billion, an increase of 17% year over year.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "EMC's ability to achieve record financial results despite the macro-economy was driven by tight alignment with key customer priorities; the strongest and most integrated product, services and partner portfolio in company history; and solid execution throughout the year. We've entered 2009 with a robust and diversified business model, which we intend to leverage to extend our technology lead and gain market share."
Tucci added, "EMC has a firm grasp on what's required to thrive in tough times and emerge even stronger in the next growth cycle. We remain intensely focused on customers' top priorities  saving money, attaining a faster ROI, reducing risk and preparing for the delivery of next-generation data centers. Finally, we remain committed to investing heavily in research and development to extend our technology lead and maintain rapid product rollout cycles."
David Goulden, EMC Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Financial strength and flexibility are high on the list of EMC's most strategic advantages. Throughout 2008 we managed our spending carefully, while reinvesting in future growth opportunities, strengthening the competitiveness of our solutions and extending our market leadership. Through 2009 we will continue to streamline operations, reduce costs and strengthen the efficiencies of our global operations."
EMC's best estimate is that 2009 global IT spending will decline as a percentage in the mid to high single digits compared with 2008. The company expects the markets that it addresses will perform slightly better than the overall IT market. The company also expects that a higher than usual percentage of the full-year IT spending will take place in the second half of the year.
Fourth-Quarter Highlights
EMC's Information Infrastructure business revenue for the fourth quarter  comprising Information Storage, RSA Security, and Content Management & Archiving  was $3.5 billion, an increase of 8% sequentially and up 2% compared with the year-ago period. This growth reflects the completeness of EMC's broad portfolio of products and services uniquely suited to help customers address the growth and management of information and drive cost savings across their IT environments.
Fourth-quarter Information Infrastructure business highlights included strong customer demand for EMC's:
 
 
 
 
VMware (NYSE: VMW), which is majority-owned by EMC, contributed fourth-quarter revenue of $514 million.
EMC consolidated fourth-quarter revenue from the United States increased 6% compared with the same period a year ago. Fourth-quarter revenue from EMC's operations outside of the United States grew 4% year over year and represented 46% of total fourth-quarter revenue.
2008 Highlights
Full-year 2008 consolidated revenue was $14.88 billion, 12% higher than the year-ago period. EMC's Information Infrastructure business grew revenue 9% to $13.0 billion, driven by the introduction of new, industry-leading products, the quality and breadth of EMC's global services portfolio, technology integrations and product enhancements from across all business units, strengthening the company's market leadership and competitiveness.
In addition, VMware contributed revenue of $1.88 billion.
Full-year 2008 consolidated revenue from EMC's operations outside of the United States grew 17% year over year and represented 46% of total annual revenue, with the Europe, Middle East & Africa (EMEA), Asia-Pacific & Japan (APJ) and Latin America regions posting double-digit year-over-year revenue growth. Revenue from EMC's United States operations increased 9% compared with 2007 and represented 54% of total annual revenue.
Certain Items Impacting 2009
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not give effect to the potential impact of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding 2009 financial results set forth in prior EMC news releases.
All dollar amounts and percentages set forth below should be considered to be approximations.
The following items are expected to impact EMC's 2009 results:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Due to the current macro-economic conditions and limited visibility, EMC is not offering revenue, EPS or other financial outlook at this time.
Supporting Resources
 
 
 
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
Items excluded for the fourth quarters of 2008 and 2007 from the non-GAAP results are stock-based compensation, intangible amortization, restructuring and IPR&D charges. Items excluded for full-year 2008 and 2007 from the non-GAAP results are stock-based compensation, intangible amortization, restructuring and IPR&D charges and special income tax benefits. Additionally, net gains on investments, including the gain on the sale of VMware stock was excluded in the full-year 2007 non-GAAP results. See attached schedules for reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.
1
EMC is a registered trademark of EMC Corporation. RSA is a registered trademark of RSA Security Inc. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc. All other trademarks used are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) our ability to protect our proprietary technology; (iv) risks associated with managing the growth of our business, including risks
associated with acquisitions and investments and the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (v) fluctuations in VMware, Inc.'s operating results and risks associated with trading of VMware stock; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (vii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (viii) component and product quality and availability; (ix) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (x) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (xi) war or acts of terrorism; (xii) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xiii) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xiv) the impact of any expense reduction initiatives; and (xv) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Statements in this release regarding market conditions are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements in this release after the date of this release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release contains non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures, which are used as measures of EMC's performance or liquidity, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, measures of EMC's financial performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. EMC's non-GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how EMC defines its non-GAAP financial measures in this release.
Where specified in the accompanying schedules for various periods entitled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP," certain items noted on each such specific schedule (including, where noted, amounts relating to stock-based compensation expense, intangible amortization, special income tax benefits, restructuring charges, IPR&D charges and net gains on investments) are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures.
EMC's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying schedules to gain an understanding of EMC's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects and excludes the above-listed items from its internal financial statements for purposes of its internal budgets and each reporting segment's financial goals. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by EMC's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect EMC's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. EMC's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others (a) in understanding and evaluating EMC's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does, if they so choose, and (b) in comparing in a consistent manner the Company's current financial results with the Company's past financial results.
This release also includes disclosures regarding free cash flow which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software development costs. EMC uses free cash flow, among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Management believes that information regarding free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase shares, service debt and fund ongoing operations. As free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
All of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures have limitations. Specifically, the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the items noted above do not include all items of income and expense that affect EMC's operations. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and do not reflect any benefit that such items may confer on EMC. Management compensates for these limitations by also considering EMC's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


