FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20100126072545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 26, 2010, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and full fiscal year ended December 31, 2009. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 26, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  January 26, 2010  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC), the world leader in information infrastructure solutions, today reported financial results for the fourth quarter of 2009. Ongoing strategic investments aligned to key customer priorities helped EMC achieve record fourth-quarter revenue. A continued focus on efficiencies and expense controls helped deliver expanded gross and operating margins, record quarterly free cash flow and fourth-quarter profit that exceeded prior company outlook.
Consolidated revenue for the fourth quarter of 2009 reached a record $4.1 billion, an increase of 17% sequentially, 2% year over year and $100 million more than the outlook provided by EMC for the fourth quarter of 2009. Fourth-quarter GAAP net income attributable to EMC reached $426.5 million, an increase of 43% sequentially and 58% year over year. Fourth-quarter GAAP diluted earnings per share were $0.20, up 43% sequentially and 54% compared with the year-ago quarter. Non-GAAP
1
net income attributable to EMC for the fourth quarter was $695.5 million, an increase of 45% sequentially and 11% compared with the fourth quarter of 2008. Non-GAAP
1
earnings per diluted share were $0.33 for the fourth quarter, $0.03 ahead of the company outlook provided for the fourth quarter of 2009. Fourth-quarter non-GAAP
1
earnings per diluted share increased 43% sequentially and were up 6% year over year.
2
During the fourth quarter, EMC expanded gross and operating margins on a sequential basis, generated operating cash flow of $1.0 billion and achieved record quarterly free cash flow of $793 million. EMC completed the fourth quarter with $9.4 billion in cash and investments.
For the full year 2009, EMC achieved total consolidated revenue of $14.0 billion. GAAP net income attributable to EMC for 2009 was $1.1 billion or $0.55 per diluted share. Non-GAAP
3
net income attributable to EMC for the full year was $1.9 billion or $0.90 per diluted share. For comparison, GAAP net income attributable to EMC for 2008 was $1.3 billion or $0.61 per diluted share and non-GAAP
3
net income attributable to EMC for 2008
2
was $2.1 billion or $1.00 per diluted share. For 2009, EMC's operating cash flow was $3.3 billion and free cash flow was $2.6 billion, an increase of 2% year over year.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Aggressive investment in core technology and strategic partnerships during the downturn, combined with heightened operational discipline, leaves EMC stronger than ever financially and intensely focused on our customers. We are well positioned to lead the industry's newest and potentially largest wave of IT, which we and others refer to as cloud computing. As we execute on our vision for where the industry is heading, EMC's primary focus is on helping customers safely build out their next-generation, fully virtualized data centers and lead them along the journey to private cloud computing, which offers the promise of a dramatically more efficient and effective model for delivering IT as a service."
David Goulden, EMC Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "Emerging from the worst global recession in company history, EMC is in the best financial and operational shape ever. We refined our financial model to a new level of efficiency and cost discipline, while continuing to invest in strategic technologies and high-growth markets. We rolled out new and more-advanced solutions and services with the best quality in our history and gained market share. With this positive momentum, EMC stands well positioned to continue to gain share in key markets and drive even greater profitability in 2010."
Fourth-Quarter Highlights
EMC's Information Infrastructure business for the fourth quarter  comprising product and service revenue from the company's Information Storage, RSA Security, and Content Management and Archiving business segments  reached $3.5 billion, an increase of 15% sequentially. Within the Information Infrastructure business, the company's Information Storage and Content Management and Archiving business segments achieved double-digit sequential revenue growth and EMC's RSA Security business achieved record quarterly revenue. Fourth-quarter highlights included solid customer demand and strong sequential revenue growth for EMC's Data Domain and Avamar next-generation backup and recovery solutions, EMC's market-leading Symmetrix and CLARiiON networked storage systems and EMC Celerra unified storage systems; and continued strong demand for EMC's RSA information security solutions, consumer and small business-focused Iomega products and EMC's broad portfolio of consulting and professional services.
VMware (NYSE: VMW), which is majority-owned by EMC, contributed fourth-quarter revenue of $607 million.
EMC consolidated fourth-quarter revenue from the United States reached $2.2 billion, an increase of 14% sequentially and 1% year over year, representing 53% of consolidated fourth-quarter revenue. Revenue from EMC's business operations outside of the United States reached $1.9 billion, an increase of 20% sequentially and 4% year over year, representing 47% of consolidated fourth-quarter revenue.
2009 Highlights
Full-year 2009 consolidated revenue was $14.0 billion. Revenue from EMC's Information Infrastructure business reached $12.0 billion and VMware contributed revenue of $2.0 billion. Throughout the year, EMC executed on numerous strategic initiatives that collectively helped strengthen the company's market leadership and advance its competitive lead, including:
 
 
 
 
Business Outlook
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not give effect to the potential impact of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding 2010 financial results set forth in prior EMC news releases.
All dollar amounts and percentages set forth below should be considered to be approximations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting Resources
 
 
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
Items excluded from the non-GAAP results are restructuring and acquisition-related charges, stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset amortization and a special income tax charge for the fourth quarter of 2009 and restructuring charge, IPR&D charge, stock-based compensation expense and intangible asset amortization for the fourth quarter of 2008. See attached schedules for reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.
The results for 2008 have been adjusted to give effect to the adoption of authoritative guidance relating to non-controlling interests and the accounting for convertible debt instruments.
2
Items excluded from the non-GAAP results are gains on Data Domain and SpringSource common stock, restructuring and acquisition-related charges, stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset amortization and a special income tax charge for 2009 and restructuring charge, IPR&D charge, special income tax benefit, stock-based compensation expense and intangible asset amortization for 2008. See attached schedules for reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP.
3
EMC, Avamar, Celerra, CLARiiON, Symmetrix, Symmetrix V-Max and Virtual Matrix Architecture are registered trademarks of EMC Corporation. RSA is a registered trademark of RSA Security Inc. VMware is a registered trademark of VMware, Inc. Iomega is a registered trademark of Iomega Corporation. Data Domain is a registered trademark of Data Domain, Inc. Mozy is a registered trademark of Decho Corporation. SpringSource is a registered trademark of SpringSource, Inc. All other trademarks used are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) our ability to protect our proprietary technology; (iv) risks associated with managing the growth of our business, including risks associated with acquisitions and investments and the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (v) fluctuations in VMware, Inc.'s operating results and risks associated with trading of VMware stock; (vi) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (vii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (viii) component and product quality and availability; (ix) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (x) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (xi) war or acts of terrorism; (xii) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (xiii) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xiv) litigation that we may be involved in; and (xv) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release, the accompanying schedules and the additional content that is available on EMC's website contain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures, which are used as measures of EMC's performance or liquidity, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, measures of EMC's financial performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. EMC's non-GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how EMC defines its non-GAAP financial measures in this release.
Where specified in the accompanying schedules for various periods entitled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP," certain items noted on each such specific schedule (including, where noted, amounts relating to gains on Data Domain and SpringSource common stock, restructuring and acquisition-related charges, special income tax charge, stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset amortization, IPR&D charge, special income tax benefit and restructuring charge) are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures.
EMC's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying schedules to gain an understanding of EMC's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects and excludes the above-listed items from its internal financial statements for purposes of its internal budgets and each reporting segment's financial goals. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by EMC's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect EMC's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. EMC's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others (a) in understanding and evaluating EMC's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does, if they so choose, and (b) in comparing in a consistent manner the Company's current financial results with the Company's past financial results.
This release also includes disclosures regarding free cash flow which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software development costs. EMC uses free cash flow, among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Management believes that information regarding free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase shares, service debt and fund ongoing operations. As free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
Certain items in the accompanying schedules refer to growth rates at constant currency or adjusting for currency so that business results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of EMC's business performance. To present this information, current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than US dollars are converted into US dollars at the exchange rate applied in each month of the prior year quarter. Constant currency includes the impacts from EMC's hedging program.
All of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures have limitations. Specifically, the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the items noted above do not include all items of income and expense that affect EMC's operations. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and do not reflect any benefit that such items may confer on EMC. Management compensates for these limitations by also considering EMC's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
The following costs are included in EMC Consolidated Non-GAAP and EMC Information Infrastructure Non-GAAP results
 
 
Note: schedule may not add due to rounding
 
 
The following costs are included in EMC Consolidated Non-GAAP and EMC Information Infrastructure Non-GAAP results
 
 
Note: schedule may not add due to rounding
 
 
The following costs are included in EMC Consolidated Non-GAAP and EMC Information Infrastructure Non-GAAP results
 
 
Note: schedule may not add due to rounding
 
 
The following costs are included in EMC Consolidated Non-GAAP and EMC Information Infrastructure Non-GAAP results
 
Note: schedule may not add due to rounding
 
 
 
Free cash flow for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 includes intercompany tax payments of $93.4 million from EMC Information Infrastructure to VMware within EMC.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This presentation refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusting for currency so that business results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of EMC's business performance. To present this information, current period results for entities reporting in currencies other than US dollars are converted into US dollars at the exchange rate applied in each month of the prior year quarter. Constant currency includes the impacts from EMC's hedging program.
 


