FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20100303162445.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Resignation of a Director
On March 3, 2010, W. Paul Fitzgerald resigned from the Board of Directors of EMC Corporation ("EMC" or the "Company") and all Committees thereof, effective immediately. Mr. Fitzgerald did not advise the Company of any disagreement on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices. The Board of Directors designated Mr. Fitzgerald as Director Emeritus.
A copy of the press release announcing the resignation of Mr. Fitzgerald from the EMC Board of Directors and his designation as Director Emeritus is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
(d) Election of a Director
On March 3, 2010, the Board of Directors of EMC elected James S. DiStasio as a member of the Board, effective immediately. Mr. DiStasio was also appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release announcing the election of Mr. DiStasio to the EMC Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
The information in the Exhibit attached to this Form 8-K shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: March 3, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  March 3, 2010  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today announced the resignation of W. Paul Fitzgerald (69) from the EMC Board of Directors and his appointment as Director Emeritus, effective immediately. EMC also announced the election of James S. DiStasio (62) to the EMC Board, effective immediately. Mr. DiStasio is a retired partner of Ernst & Young LLP where he served in senior management roles for many years. He will also serve as a member of EMC's Audit Committee.
"The entire EMC family extends its heartfelt gratitude to Paul for his many years of dedicated service, wisdom and friendship," said Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "His judgment and integrity helped guide EMC in its evolution from a start-up to the global leader in information infrastructure products, services and solutions. We are pleased to have Paul remain as Director Emeritus given the deep understanding of our business that he acquired serving as our Chief Financial Officer and from almost 20 years on our Board."
"As EMC positions itself to take advantage of what we believe is the most significant industry shift in IT history, we're honored to welcome to the EMC Board a leader with Jim DiStasio's credentials," Tucci added. "Jim brings to EMC extensive financial, accounting and consulting expertise acquired over the course of his long and distinguished career. We look forward to benefitting from the wealth of management, operational and independent auditing experience Jim gained from working with global public companies across a wide range of industries."
Mr. DiStasio spent over 38 years at Ernst & Young in various management positions, having been elected as a partner in 1977. He retired in 2007 as Senior Vice Chairman and Americas Chief Operating Officer. Mr. DiStasio currently serves as a member of the Board of Trustees of NSTAR Corporation.
About EMC
EMC Corporation (NYSE: EMC) is the world's leading developer and provider of information infrastructure technology and solutions that enable organizations of all sizes to transform the way they compete and create value from their information. Information about EMC's products and services can be found at www.EMC.com.
EMC is a registered trademark of EMC Corporation in the United States and other countries. All other trademarks used herein are the property of their respective owners.


