FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20110720065346.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2011, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 20, 2011
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  July 20, 2011  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported record financial results for the second quarter of 2011. Strong worldwide customer demand for EMC's information infrastructure and virtual infrastructure products and services, balanced growth and continued outstanding execution contributed to EMC achieving record second-quarter consolidated revenue and net income. The results were also highlighted by strong year-over-year percentage increases in non-GAAP operating and gross margins and all-time record consolidated quarterly revenue for EMC's business operations outside of the United States.
Second-quarter consolidated revenue was $4.85 billion, an increase of 20% compared with the year-ago quarter. Second-quarter GAAP net income attributable to EMC increased 28% year over year to $546 million. Second-quarter GAAP earnings per weighted average diluted share increased 20% year over year to $0.24. Non-GAAP
1
net income attributable to EMC for the second quarter was $793 million, an increase of 33% compared with the year-ago quarter. Second-quarter non-GAAP
1
earnings per weighted average diluted share were $0.35, an increase of 25% year over year.
EMC achieved year-to-date operating cash flow of $2.2 billion and free cash flow
2
of $1.6 billion. The company ended the second quarter with $9.5 billion in cash and investments.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "Our record-setting performance during the quarter was marked by balanced growth, solid execution and significant technology innovation as customers around the world continue to embrace EMC's cloud computing and Big Data strategies. It is our firm belief that this strategy is well-placed and underpinned with winning products and services and strategic partners. We remain confident in
our ability to continue delivering strong results this year and over the long term. Furthermore, we remain committed to investing heavily to extend our technology lead and help customers and service provider partners accelerate their IT and business model transformations."
David Goulden, EMC Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "EMC's second-quarter results are further evidence that our strategy is on target and that we continue to execute our financial triple play'  gaining market share, investing aggressively to take full advantage of the massive opportunities at the intersection of cloud computing and Big Data, and improving profitability. Our focus on providing technology and services that accelerate our customers' journey to the cloud and enable them to leverage their data for more competitive advantage is resonating strongly in the market. Given the strong results we have achieved this year and the opportunity we see for the remainder of 2011, we are raising our financial outlook for the year. We now expect to exceed 2011 consolidated revenue of $19.8 billion, GAAP EPS of $1.07 and non-GAAP EPS of $1.48."
Second-Quarter Highlights
Second-quarter highlights included double-digit revenue growth for EMC Information Storage business, which increased 19% year over year. EMC's high-end EMC Symmetrix storage product portfolio, which includes the EMC Symmetrix VMAX, increased revenue 15% compared with the year-ago quarter, and EMC's portfolio of mid-tier storage products
3
grew revenue 27% year over year. Revenue from VMware (NYSE: VMW), which is majority-owned by EMC, increased 37% and revenue from EMC's RSA Information Security business grew 13% year over year. Additional second-quarter highlights included strong revenue growth for the EMC VNX unified storage and the company's backup and recovery solutions. EMC saw increasing customer demand for its Big Data technologies  product revenue from EMC Isilon, EMC Atmos and EMC Greenplum each doubled year over year. Further second-quarter highlights included continued customer demand for EMC's broad consulting and professional services portfolio.
Also during the quarter, VCE, the Virtual Computing Environment Company formed by Cisco and EMC with investments from VMware and Intel, experienced continued momentum as demand from customers for best-of-breed converged infrastructure through the Vblock Infrastructure Platform grew. VCE's year-to-date revenue for 2011 has already exceeded its full-year 2010 revenue amount.
EMC's consolidated second-quarter revenue from the United States reached $2.5 billion, an increase of 17% year over year, representing 52% of consolidated second-quarter revenue. Revenue from EMC's business operations outside of the United States hit an all-time record $2.3 billion, an increase of 25% year over year, representing 48% of consolidated second-quarter revenue. Within this, revenue increased 20%, 34% and 43% year over year, respectively, in EMC's Europe, Middle East and Africa; Asia Pacific and Japan; and Latin America regions.
Business Outlook
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not give effect to the potential impact of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements regarding 2011 financial results.
All dollar amounts and percentages set forth below should be considered to be approximations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting Resources
 
 
About EMC
EMC Corporation is a global leader in enabling businesses and service providers to transform their operations and deliver IT as a service. Fundamental to this transformation is cloud computing. Through innovative products and services, EMC accelerates the journey to cloud computing, helping IT departments to store, manage, protect and analyze their most valuable asset  information  in a more agile, trusted and cost-efficient way. Additional information about EMC can be found at .
www.EMC.com
 
EMC, Atmos, Avamar, Celerra, Centera, CLARiiON, Data Domain, Greenplum, Isilon, RSA, Symmetrix, Symmetrix VMAX, VNX and Vblock are either registered trademarks or trademarks of EMC Corporation in the United States and/or other countries.
VMware is a registered trademark or trademark of VMware, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks used are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (v) component and product quality and availability; (vi) fluctuations in VMware, Inc.'s operating results and risks associated with trading of VMware stock; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (viii) risks associated with managing the growth of our business, including risks associated with acquisitions and investments and the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (ix) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (x) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xii) threats and other disruptions to our secure data centers or networks; (xiii) our ability to protect our proprietary technology; (xiv) war or acts of terrorism; and (xv) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release, the accompanying schedules and the additional content that is available on EMC's website contain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures, which are used as measures of EMC's performance or liquidity, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, measures of EMC's financial performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. EMC's non-GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how EMC defines its non-GAAP financial measures in this release.
Where specified in the accompanying schedules for various periods entitled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP," certain items noted on each such specific schedule (including, where noted, amounts relating to restructuring and acquisition-related charges, stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset amortization, a non-recurring gain on strategic investments and an RSA special charge) are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures.
EMC's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying schedules to gain an understanding of EMC's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects and excludes the above-listed items from its internal financial statements for purposes of its internal budgets and each reporting segment's financial goals. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by EMC's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect EMC's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. EMC's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others (a) in understanding and evaluating EMC's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does, if they so choose, and (b) in comparing in a consistent manner the Company's current financial results with the Company's past financial results.
This release also includes disclosures regarding free cash flow which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software development costs. EMC uses free cash flow, among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Management believes that information regarding free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase shares, service debt and fund ongoing operations. As free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
All of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures have limitations. Specifically, the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the items noted above do not include all items of income and expense that affect EMC's operations. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and do not reflect any benefit that such items may confer on EMC. Management compensates for these limitations by also considering EMC's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


