FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20110110163240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 6, 2011, EMC Corporation ("EMC") announced the appointment of Denis G. Cashman to Chief Accounting Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Finance. Mr. Cashman, 50, has worked in the finance organization at EMC in roles of increasing responsibility for over 20 years. He has been a Senior Vice President since 2003 and EMC's Corporate Controller since 2005.
In connection with his appointment, Mr. Cashman and EMC are expected to enter into EMC's standard form of Indemnification Agreement. Pursuant to this agreement, subject to the exceptions and limitations set forth therein, EMC has agreed to hold harmless and indemnify Mr. Cashman to the fullest extent authorized by EMC's articles of organization and Massachusetts law. The foregoing description is qualified in its entirety by the full text of the form of Indemnification Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 10.14 to EMC's Form 10-K filed on February 29, 2008 and is incorporated by reference herein.
Mark A. Link, formerly EMC's Chief Accounting Officer, is assuming the role of Senior Vice President, Finance New Ventures, with responsibility for the financial structuring, accounting and management of new ventures, including acquisitions, investments and joint ventures.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: January 10, 2011


