FILE:EMC/EMC-8K-20120419064903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 19, 2012, EMC Corporation ("EMC") issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2012. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Item 2.02 and the Exhibit attached hereto shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: April 19, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
HOPKINTON, Mass.  April 19, 2012  EMC Corporation (NYSE:EMC) today reported strong financial results for the first quarter of 2012, marking the company's ninth consecutive quarter of achieving year-over-year double-digit growth for consolidated revenue, net income and EPS.
First-quarter consolidated revenue was $5.1 billion, an increase of 11% compared with the year-ago quarter. First-quarter GAAP net income attributable to EMC increased 23% year over year to $587 million. First-quarter GAAP earnings per weighted average diluted share increased 29% year over year to $0.27. Non-GAAP
1
net income attributable to EMC for the first quarter was $818 million, an increase of 17% compared with the year-ago quarter. First-quarter non-GAAP
1
earnings per weighted average diluted share were $0.37, an increase of 19% year over year.
During the first quarter, EMC generated operating cash flow of $1.7 billion and free cash flow
2
of $1.4 billion, increases of 49% and 67% year over year, respectively. Additionally, the company significantly expanded GAAP and non-GAAP gross margin and operating margin percentages on a year-over-year basis, and ended the quarter with $10.9 billion in cash and investments.
Joe Tucci, EMC Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, said, "We are in a time of unprecedented IT and business transformation, propelled by the benefits of cloud computing, Big Data and trust. EMC is off to a strong start to 2012 and is exceptionally well-positioned to help customers take advantage of these major transformational shifts. We have never been more excited about what this great technology company can accomplish and look forward to helping our customers drive maximum value from their IT investments in the years ahead."
David Goulden, EMC Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, said, "EMC's solid first-quarter results are ongoing proof that we are executing on our strategy and on track to deliver our triple play'  simultaneously taking market share, reinvesting for growth and delivering improved earnings this year. Based upon our strong start to the year and our opportunity, we now have greater confidence in our ability to meet and potentially exceed our 2012 financial goals for consolidated revenue, non-GAAP EPS and free cash flow. Additionally, with continued steady execution, we are well on our way to achieving the financial potential of 2014 consolidated revenue of over $28 billion, which represents compound annual revenue growth of at least 13% from 2010 and non-GAAP EPS growth even greater than this."
First-Quarter Highlights
First-quarter highlights included strong customer demand for EMC's market-leading mid-tier storage products portfolio
3
, which increased revenue 26% year over year. The company's Isilon scale-out NAS business nearly doubled its revenue year over year, and its VNX unified storage family, Backup Recovery Systems (BRS) portfolio, and Greenplum portfolio each delivered strong year-over-year revenue growth. Also during the quarter, EMC's RSA Information Security business increased revenue 19% year over year and revenue from VMware (NYSE: VMW), the global leader in virtualization and cloud infrastructure, grew 25% year over year. Additionally, EMC continued to experience strong customer demand for its broad portfolio of services to help customers accelerate to the cloud. Finally, VCE, the Virtual Computing Environment Company formed by Cisco and EMC with investments from VMware and Intel, continued its momentum as customer adoption of Vblock Converged Infrastructure Platforms increased significantly on a year-over-year basis.
EMC's consolidated first-quarter revenue from the United States increased 11% year over year to $2.6 billion, representing 52% of consolidated first-quarter revenue. Revenue from EMC's business operations outside of the United States increased 10% year over year to $2.5 billion and represented 48% of consolidated first-quarter revenue. Within this, revenue in EMC's Asia Pacific and Japan region reached an all-time record level, growing 20% year over year. EMC's Europe, Middle East and Africa region grew revenue 6% year over year and EMC's Latin America region grew revenue 20% year over year.
Business Outlook
The following statements are based on current expectations. These statements are forward-looking, and actual results may differ materially. These statements do not give effect to the potential impact of mergers, acquisitions, divestitures or business combinations that may be announced or closed after the date hereof. These statements supersede all prior statements made by EMC regarding 2012 financial results.
All dollar amounts and percentages set forth below should be considered to be approximations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Supporting Resources
 
 
 
About EMC
EMC Corporation is a global leader in enabling businesses and service providers to transform their operations and deliver IT as a service. Fundamental to this transformation is cloud computing. Through innovative products and services, EMC accelerates the journey to cloud computing, helping IT departments to store, manage, protect and analyze their most valuable asset  information  in a more agile, trusted and cost-efficient way. Additional information about EMC can be found at www.EMC.com.
 
EMC, Atmos, Avamar, Celerra, Centera, CLARiiON, Data Domain, Greenplum, Isilon, RSA, Vblock, and VNX are either registered trademarks or trademarks of EMC Corporation in the United States and/or other countries. VMware is a registered trademark or trademark of VMware, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. All other trademarks used are the property of their respective owners.
Forward-Looking Statements
This release contains "forward-looking statements" as defined under the Federal Securities Laws. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements as a result of certain risk factors, including but not limited to: (i) adverse changes in general economic or market conditions; (ii) delays or reductions in information technology spending; (iii) the relative and varying rates of product price and component cost declines and the volume and mixture of product and services revenues; (iv) competitive factors, including but not limited to pricing pressures and new product introductions; (v) component and product quality and availability; (vi) fluctuations in VMware, Inc.'s operating results and risks associated with trading of VMware stock; (vii) the transition to new products, the uncertainty of customer acceptance of new product offerings and rapid technological and market change; (viii) risks associated with managing the growth of our business, including risks associated with acquisitions and investments and the challenges and costs of integration, restructuring and achieving anticipated synergies; (ix) the ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees; (x) insufficient, excess or obsolete inventory; (xi) fluctuating currency exchange rates; (xii) threats and other disruptions to our secure data centers or networks; (xiii) our ability to protect our proprietary technology; (xiv) war or acts of terrorism; and (xv) other one-time events and other important factors disclosed previously and from time to time in EMC's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. EMC disclaims any obligation to update any such forward-looking statements after the date of this release.
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This release, the accompanying schedules and the additional content that is available on EMC's website contain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures, which are used as measures of EMC's performance or liquidity, should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, measures of EMC's financial performance or liquidity prepared in accordance with GAAP. EMC's non-GAAP financial measures may be defined differently from time to time and may be defined differently than similar terms used by other companies, and accordingly, care should be exercised in understanding how EMC defines its non-GAAP financial measures in this release.
Where specified in the accompanying schedules for various periods entitled "Reconciliation of GAAP to Non-GAAP," certain items noted on each such specific schedule (including, where noted, amounts relating to stock-based compensation expense, intangible asset amortization, restructuring and acquisition-related charges and the amortization of VMware's capitalized software from prior periods) are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures.
EMC's management uses the non-GAAP financial measures in the accompanying schedules to gain an understanding of EMC's comparative operating performance (when comparing such results with previous periods or forecasts) and future prospects and excludes the above-listed items from its internal financial statements for purposes of its internal budgets and each reporting segment's financial goals. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by EMC's management in their financial and operating decision-making because management believes they reflect EMC's ongoing business in a manner that allows meaningful period-to-period comparisons. EMC's management believes that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors and others (a) in understanding and evaluating EMC's current operating performance and future prospects in the same manner as management does, if they so choose, and (b) in comparing in a consistent manner the Company's current financial results with the Company's past financial results.
This release also includes disclosures regarding free cash flow which is a non-GAAP financial measure. Free cash flow is defined as net cash provided by operating activities less additions to property, plant and equipment and capitalized software development costs. EMC uses free cash flow, among other measures, to evaluate the ability of its operations to generate cash that is available for purposes other than capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Management believes that information regarding free cash flow provides investors with an important perspective on the cash available to make strategic acquisitions and investments, repurchase shares, service debt and fund ongoing operations. As free cash flow is not a measure of liquidity calculated in accordance with GAAP, free cash flow should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, the analysis provided in the statement of cash flows.
All of the foregoing non-GAAP financial measures have limitations. Specifically, the non-GAAP financial measures that exclude the items noted above do not include all items of income and expense that affect EMC's operations. Further, these non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may not be comparable to non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies and do not reflect any benefit that such items may confer on EMC. Management compensates for these limitations by also considering EMC's financial results as determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: Schedule may not add due to rounding.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


