FILE:AON/AON-8K-20061101201324.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
            
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
            
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
            
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
            
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On November 1, 2006, Aon Corporation (the "Company" or "Aon") announced proposed changes to its U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans in an effort to maintain competitive retirement benefits for its employees while reducing future pension costs.
These changes include the following:
                 
Aon employees hired before January 1, 2004, who currently participate in the Company's U.S. defined benefit pension plan with a final average pay formula, will stop accruing benefits under that formula and will have future benefits relating to service and compensation after January 1, 2007 calculated using a career average pay formula.
                 
Aon employees hired before January 1, 1999, who currently participate in the Company's U.K. defined benefit pension plans will cease accruing future benefits relating to salary and service, and will instead receive retirement benefits for future service in accordance with the methodology contained in the defined contribution section of the Aon U.K. Pension Scheme.  This change is subject to trustee approval and member consultation, and is anticipated to take effect during the first half of 2007.
Changes to the pension plans will not affect pension plan benefits earned by participants prior to the effective date of these changes.
The proposed changes are expected to result in annual expense savings of approximately $60 million.  Actual 2007 pension expense will depend upon a number of measurement date factors which are used to calculate pension cost, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, asset levels, asset return expectations and mortality assumptions, as well as the timing of implementation of proposed changes to the U.K. plans.
A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing these changes (the "Pension Press Release") is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On November 1, 2006, the Company issued a press release (the "Earnings Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006.
A copy of the Earnings Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)(c)    Not applicable.
(d)            Exhibits:
 
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Aon Reports Third Quarter 2006 Results
 Total Revenue Increased 7% to $2.2 Billion 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue increased 5% to $1.3 billion with organic revenue growth of 3%, led by Reinsurance organic revenue growth of 8%
                 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services pretax margin increased 350 basis points to 14.2%, compared to 10.7% for the prior year quarter
                 
Net income was $0.32 per share compared to $0.36 per share in the prior year quarter. Third quarter 2006 net income includes the effect of $102 million or $0.19 per share related to Property & Casualty reserve strengthening
                 
Net income from continuing operations, excluding certain items, increased 33% to $0.44 per share compared to $0.33 per share for the prior year quarter
                 
Repurchased 5.6 million shares for $190 million, or approximately1.8% of total shares outstanding
                 
Subsequent to the close of the third quarter, the Company signed a letter of intent to sell its Construction Program Group for $85 million
                 
- - Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006.
CHICAGO, IL  November 1, 2006
Third quarter net income was $106 million or $0.32 per share, compared to $122 million or $0.36 per share for the prior year quarter. Net income from continuing operations was $90 million or $0.27 per share, compared to $97 million or $0.29 per share for the prior year quarter.
Certain items that influenced third quarter results and comparisons against the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliations of the impact of non-GAAP measures on pages 14 and 15. Net income from continuing operations, excluding certain items, increased 33% to $0.44 per share compared to $0.33 per share for the prior year quarter.
Total revenue increased 7% to $2.2 billion with organic revenue growth of 6%. Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue increased 5% to $1.3 billion and organic revenue growth was 3%. Reinsurance organic revenue growth was 8%. Consulting revenue increased 2% to $301 million with organic revenue growth of 3%. Insurance Underwriting revenue increased to $519 million with organic revenue growth of 13% for Accident & Health and Life (A&H and Life).
"The third quarter is evidence of good progress in each of our three key metrics: earnings growth, margin expansion and organic revenue growth," said Greg Case, Aon president and chief executive officer. "Adjusted pretax income increased by 33% with meaningfully higher margins in both Brokerage and Consulting. Investments we have made for our future, coupled with our commitment to distinctive client value, produced consolidated organic revenue growth of 6%, the highest rate of growth since 2003."
THIRD QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue, pretax income and pretax margins in 2005 and 2006. The third quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  Segments" on page 15 of this press release.
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services third quarter revenue increased 5% to $1.3 billion with organic revenue growth of 3%. Brokerage-Americas organic revenue increased 2% with strong growth in Affinity and Latin America. Brokerage-International organic revenue increased 1% with strong results in Asia, partially offset by weakness in the U.K. In 2005, Brokerage-International reported revenue included $23 million attributable to a refinement in techniques used to estimate revenues on installment policies in the U.K, which has been excluded from the calculation of organic revenue growth. Reinsurance organic revenue increased 8% primarily driven by new business and increased penetration with existing clients in the U.S. and the U.K.
 
2
Compensation and benefits increased 9% versus the prior year quarter primarily due to currency fluctuations, higher merit-based incentives and employee benefit costs. Other expenses declined 13% primarily due to a $30 million gain on the sale of a building in Spain and lower information technology expenses. The prior year quarter included a non-cash charge of $22 million to recognize the costs of future claims servicing in the U.K. brokerage operation.
Third quarter pretax income increased 40% to $190 million and the pretax margin increased 350 basis points to 14.2% versus the prior year. Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 15, pretax income increased 29% to $189 million and the pretax margin increased 240 basis points to 14.1% versus the prior year quarter, principally due to revenue growth and the benefits of operational improvements and cost reduction initiatives.
CONSULTING
 
Consulting third quarter revenue increased 2% to $301 million with organic revenue growth of 3%. Organic revenue in Consulting Services increased 4%, driven primarily by the recently established Financial Advisory and Litigation Consulting (FALC) unit and international operations.
 
3
Compensation and benefits expense increased 5% versus the prior year quarter primarily due to investments made in new practices including FALC. Other expenses declined 8% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to lower information technology expenses.
Third quarter pretax income increased 20% to $18 million and the pretax margin increased 90 basis points to 6.0% versus the prior year quarter. Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 15, pretax income increased 41% to $24 million and the pretax margin increased 220 basis points to 8.0% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to broad-based improvements in all businesses, partially offset by investments in FALC and new global benefits services.
INSURANCE UNDERWRITING
 
Underwriting revenue increased to $519 million. A&H and Life organic revenue, which is based on written premiums and fees, increased 13% driven primarily by strong growth in a supplemental health product. Due to pending dispositions, Aon Warranty Group and Construction Program Group have been placed into discontinued operations. All remaining Property & Casualty (P&C) business has been placed in run-off. As organic growth calculations are based on written premium, organic growth comparisons are not meaningful.
Insurance
 
4
Benefits to policyholders increased 45% versus the prior year quarter reflecting the previously announced strengthening of P&C reserves by $81 million in the third quarter. The third quarter pretax loss was $27 million due primarily to the P&C reserve increase. Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 15, pretax income increased 6% to $55 million and the pretax margin decreased 60 basis points to 10.6% versus the prior year.
CORPORATE AND OTHER
 
pretax loss was $42 million versus a pretax loss of $59 million in the prior year quarter.
Corporate and Other revenue was $19 million, an increase of $22 million versus the prior year quarter. The prior year quarter included a $13 million pretax loss related to the revaluation of Endurance warrants. Interest expense increased 17% to $34 million versus the prior year quarter due to increased borrowings and higher interest rates. Corporate and Other
Sale of Aon Warranty Group and Construction Program Group
Subsequent to the close of the quarter, Aon signed a letter of intent to sell its Construction Program Group (CPG) business, a managing general underwriter, to Old Republic Insurance Company. The operating results of this business have been reclassified to discontinued operations for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2006 and 2005. As previously announced, the operating results of Aon Warranty Group (AWG) and its worldwide operations, including Virginia Surety Company (VSC), and related Corporate and Other segment investment income, are also included in discontinued operations (see "Discontinued Operations"). The sale of CPG and the previously announced pending sale of AWG and VSC are anticipated to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2006.
5
Property & Casualty Reserves
P&C reserves have been increased by $102 million reflecting adverse development, refined assumptions, and additional claim information relating to programs to be disposed of through sale or run-off. The majority of the reserve increase is attributable to National Program Services. Of the reserve increase, $81 million ($0.15 per share) was recorded in continuing operations and $21 million ($0.04 per share) relating to CPG, was recorded in discontinued operations. All remaining P&C programs have been placed in run-off, and the Company continues to explore alternative disposition opportunities for portions of the book.
Discontinued Operations
Third quarter after-tax income from discontinued operations, which includes AWG and CPG, was $16 million or $0.05 per share, compared to $25 million or $0.07 per share in the prior year quarter. Selected financial information relating to the reclassification of CPG is included on page 17.
Restructuring Plan
The previously announced three-year restructuring plan is expected to result in cumulative pretax charges of approximately $300 million, including employee termination and lease consolidation costs, asset impairments, and other costs associated with the restructuring. Annualized cost savings are now targeted at approximately $210 million by 2008. Certain aspects of the plan are not finalized, and actual total costs, the timing of the costs and ultimate savings may vary from the estimates due to changes in the scope or assumptions underlying this plan. Aon currently expects to finalize the plan by the end of 2006. An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment for the third quarter and nine months of 2006 is presented in the attached reconciliation of non-GAAP measures
.
Actual and estimated restructuring costs by reporting period, by type, and by geographic region are detailed on page 16. Restructuring benefits realized in the third quarter and nine months of 2006 are estimated at $35 million and $82 million, respectively.
FASB Statement No. 123(R)
As of January 1, 2006, Aon adopted FASB Statement No.123(R) using the modified prospective transition method. Accordingly, prior period amounts have not been restated.
Stock option-based compensation expense (included in compensation and benefits expense) related to the adoption of Statement No.123(R) was $6 million or $0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2006, and $19 million or $0.04 per share for nine months 2006.
Foreign Exchange Impact
Third quarter net income per share was negatively impacted by $0.01 related to foreign currency translation losses relative to the prior year quarter. In addition, third quarter net income per share included $0.01 of currency hedging losses compared to $0.02 of hedging gains in the prior year quarter.
6
Effective Tax Rate
The effective tax rate for continuing operations was 35.3% for the third quarter, compared to 32.6% for the prior year quarter. The effective tax rate for 2005 was lower reflecting the favorable resolution of certain tax matters.
Stock Repurchase Program
During the third quarter, Aon completed the repurchase of approximately 5.6 million shares of common stock for $190 million at an average price of approximately $33.82. Through September 30, 2006, the Company repurchased approximately 18 million shares for $683 million under the existing $1 billion buyback authorization announced in November 2005.
Pension  FAS158 and Proposed Changes to U.S. and U.K. Plans
FASB Statement No. 158 (FAS 158) requires balance sheet recognition of the funded status of defined benefit postretirement plans, including pension plans. FAS 158 also requires companies to measure plan assets and obligations as of the date of the year end financial statements. If Aon had adopted FAS 158 as of December 31, 2005, the total impact from the Company's material pension plans would have been to reduce stockholders' equity by approximately $500 million. Changes to plan assumptions will impact this amount. Aon is adopting FAS 158 and changing the measurement date of its U.S. and U.K. pension plans to December 31 effective at year end 2006.
Subsequent to the close of the quarter, Aon proposed to change its U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans to maintain competitive retirement benefits for its employees while reducing future pension costs. These proposed changes are expected to result in annual expense savings of approximately $60 million. Actual 2007 pension expense will depend upon a number of measurement date factors which are used to calculate pension cost, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, asset levels, asset return expectations and mortality assumptions, as well as the timing of implementation of proposed changes to the U.K. plans.
Financial Condition
Total debt and total debt as a percentage of capital was $2.3 billion and 30%, respectively, at September 30, 2006, compared to $2.1 billion and 28% at December 31, 2005, and $1.9 billion and 26% at September 30, 2005. Stockholders' equity was $5.4 billion at September 30, 2006
.
Approximately 93% of Aon's investment portfolio at quarter end was in short-term and fixed maturities, with 99% of the fixed income securities rated investment grade.
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will host a conference call on Thursday, November 2 at 10:00 a.m. central time. Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
About Aon
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting. There are 45,000employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon
7
professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, our ability to execute the stock repurchase program, our ability to consummate the pending sale of the Aon Warranty Group, our ability to obtain regulatory or legislative changes to permit continuous sales of our supplemental Medicare health product changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, and ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
,
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth, a measure that management believes is important to evaluate changes in revenue from existing operations. We believe that this supplemental information is helpful to investors. Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items, and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium. A reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules. The supplemental organic revenue growth information does not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts. It should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
This press release also includes supplemental information related to several measures - income per share, expenses, and margins - that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that impacted revenue and pretax income in the comparable periods. Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors. The measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts. They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations. Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
8
 
 
9
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations
Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation.
(1)
    
Adoption of FASB Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payments,"  effective January 1, 2006.
(2)
    
Tax rate from continuing operations is 35.3% and 32.6% for the third quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and 34.8% and 30.0% for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
(3)
    
Tax rate from discontinued operations is 33.3% and 35.9% for the third quarters ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and 37.0% and 61.2% for the nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
(4)
    
10
Aon Corporation
Revenue from Continuing Operations
 
Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation.
(1)
    
Includes the impact of investment income, reimbursable expenses, adjustment between written and earned premium and fees in insurance underwriting only, and unusual items.
(2)
    
Organic revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers and items described in (2).  Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth within the Insurance Underwriting segment.
(3)
    
11
Aon Corporation
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services  - - Continuing Operations
 
Consulting - - Continuing Operations
Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation.
(1)
    
12
Aon Corporation
Insurance Underwriting - Continuing Operations
 
Corporate and Other - Continuing Operations
Certain amounts related to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2006 presentation.
(1)
    
Includes gain (loss) from Endurance warrants of ($17) million for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 and ($13) million and $2 million for the third quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2005, respectively.
(2)
    
13
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Diluted Earnings Per Share
Third Quarter and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006 and 2005
 
14
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Segments
Third Quarter and Nine Months Ended September 30, 2006 and 2005 (1)
 
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue and pretax income in 2006 and 2005, which are described in this schedule. The pretax income (loss) amounts and related margins shown in the captions "Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax - as adjusted" are non-GAAP measures.
(1)
              
15
Aon Corporation
2005 Restructuring Plan
By Type:
 
By Region:
16
Aon Corporation
Construction Program Group
17
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations - Reclassified for Discontinued Operations
 
18
Aon Corporation
Segments - Reclassification for Discontinued Operations
19
 
20

Exhibit 99.2
Aon Proposes Changes in U.S. and U.K. Pension Plans to Maintain Competitive Benefit Plans and Reduce Pension Costs
Aon (NYSE: AOC) today announced proposed changes to its U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans to maintain competitive retirement benefits for its employees while reducing future pension costs. Changes to the pension plans will not affect pension plan benefits earned by participants prior to the effective date of the changes.
CHICAGO, November 1, 2006
-
Effective January 1, 2007, future benefits in the Company's U.S. defined benefit pension plan will be calculated based on a "career average pay" formula instead of a "final average pay" formula. The change is anticipated to affect approximately 11,000 active employees covered by the U.S. plan. The U.S. plan was closed to new entrants effective January 1, 2004.
For its U.K. defined benefit pension plans, the Company is proposing to cease crediting future benefits relating to salary and service, subject to trustee approval and member consultation. The proposed change would affect approximately 1,700 active employees and is anticipated to take effect during the first half of 2007. Subject to approval of the trustees, it is proposed that the future pension provision will be provided under the defined contribution section of the Aon U.K. Pension Scheme. The U.K. defined benefit plans were closed to new entrants effective January 1, 1999.
"We believe these changes will help Aon better manage its overall future compensation cost structure," said Greg Case, Aon president and chief executive officer. "Over the last five years, Aon has contributed more than $1.1 billion to fund retirement benefits for participants in the U.S. and U.K. plans. These plans will continue to provide competitive retirement benefits for our employees, however, merit-based reward programs will receive an increasing portion of company contributions going forward."
These proposed changes are expected to result in annual expense savings of approximately $60 million. Actual 2007 pension expense will depend upon a number of measurement date factors which are used to calculate pension cost, including interest rates, foreign exchange rates, asset levels, asset return expectations and mortality assumptions, as well as the timing of implementation of proposed changes to the U.K. plans. The Company is adopting FAS 158 and changing the measurement date of its U.S. and U.K. pension plans to December 31 effective at year end 2006.
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting. There are 45,000 employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
For more information, contact:
Scott Malchow, Vice President, Investor Relations, 312.381.3983
Al Orendorff, Director, Public Relations, 312.381.3153
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, our ability to execute the stock repurchase program, our ability to consummate the pending sale of the Aon Warranty Group, our ability to obtain regulatory or legislative changes to permit continuous sales of our supplemental Medicare health product, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, and ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
2


