FILE:AON/AON-8K-20070201150102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
January 29, 2007
 
 
Aon Corporation
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, if Changed Since Last Report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On January 29, 2007, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing
that it has completed the acquisition of Footman James from Alchemy Partners (Guernsey) Limited.
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)(c)    Not applicable.
(d)            Exhibits:
 
2
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
News from Aon
For Immediate Release
 Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today announced that it has completed the acquisition of Footman James from Alchemy Partners (Guernsey) Limited. The terms of the transaction are not disclosed.
CHICAGO, IL - January 29, 2007
Aon provides tailor made cover for specialist personal risks including prestige sports and classic cars, holiday homes, yachts, travel, art, antiques, estates, high value goods and other niche lines. The acquisition of Footman James will add significant complementary skills and resources to Aon's existing personal lines and affinity business.
Aon ownership will ensure that Footman James continues to remain independent of insurance underwriters so that clients receive the best value and service available.  Aon's wider product provision, infrastructure and backing will provide Footman James with both stability and the opportunity for future development of the business.  The transaction will have no effect on existing policies in force and client service will continue uninterrupted.  Footman James will continue to trade under its own name for the foreseeable future.
, CEO of Aon UK, said, "We are excited about the combination of Aon and Footman James in the personal lines and affinity market and welcome Footman James clients and staff to Aon, the UK's leading insurance broker."
Peter Harmer
Paul Matthews, Managing Director of Footman James, said, "This transaction with Aon presents an exciting opportunity for Footman James.  We have built a high quality, competitive and compelling proposition and with Aon's support we will continue to develop and invest in our business for the benefit of our clients and people."
About Aon
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting. There are 45,000 employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
About Footman James
Footman James was founded in 1983 to establish a professional insurance broking service specialising in exclusive plans for niche markets. For over twenty years Footman James has enjoyed a unique relationship with vintage and classic vehicle enthusiasts and clubs offering an exceptional service and flexibility. Footman James policies cover over 160,000 vehicles and attracts premium income of over $80 million.  Footman James operates a call centre of 180 experienced staff based in Cradley Heath, West Midlands dealing efficiently with over 2,500 requests a day.
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, our ability to execute the stock repurchase program, our ability to obtain regulatory or legislative changes to permit continuous sales of our supplemental Medicare health product, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, and ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 


