FILE:AON/AON-8K-20070731203009.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 31, 2007, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Earnings Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2007.
A copy of the Earnings Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01.  Other Events.
On July 31, 2007, the Company also issued a press release (the "CICA Press Release") announcing
that it is considering strategic options for Combined Insurance Company of America and its subsidiaries. 
A copy of the CICA Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)(c)    Not applicable.
(d)            Exhibits:
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
News from Aon
Aon Reports Second Quarter 2007 Results
Second Quarter 2007 Highlights
                 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services pretax margin was 18.3% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 150 basis points to 17.8% from 16.3%
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 13.5% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 670 basis points to 14.8% from 8.1%
                 
Repurchased 6.7 million shares for $279 million
                 
Subsequent to the close of second quarter, the Company announced it is considering strategic options for Combined Insurance Companies of America (CICA) and its subsidiaries
- - Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2007.  All organic revenue growth percentages highlighted in the text of this press release exclude the impact of contingent commissions received in the prior year quarter.
CHICAGO, IL  July 31, 2007
increased 24% to $240 million or $0.75 per share, compared to $193 million or $0.57 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income from continuing operations increased 36% to $238 million or $0.74 per share, compared to $175 million or $0.52 per share for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted second quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliations of non-GAAP measures on pages 13 and 14 of this press release.
Net income
"Our second quarter results reflect a continued emphasis on delivering the best of Aon to our clients, the strength of our industry-leading global network of resources and capabilities and a continued focus on productivity, renewal book management and talent development.  Despite soft market conditions, our Brokerage segment generated the highest rate of organic revenue growth since 2003, with growth across all major business units," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer, Aon Corporation.  "Strong organic revenue growth, combined with expense initiatives, led to another quarter of meaningful margin improvement and earnings growth, even as we invest in innovative solutions and talent to deliver increased value for clients.  Our balance sheet is strong, providing financial flexibility.  During the quarter, we repurchased $279 million of stock and announced we are considering strategic options for CICA, highlighting a belief in the strength of Aon's platform and our commitment to creating long-term shareholder value."
  
SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
increased 13% to $2.5 billion with organic revenue growth of 8%.  increased 9% or $182 million to $2.1 billion due primarily to a $94 million increase in benefits to policyholders and a $62 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by pension expense savings and benefits related to the restructuring program.
Total
revenue
Total expenses
related to the Company's major defined benefit pension plans declined to $17 million in the second quarter compared to $62 million in the prior year quarter.  The company currently anticipates that pension expense will be approximately $90 million in 2007.  The decrease in pension expense reflects current actuarial assumptions and plan changes to both the U.S. and U.K. defined benefit pension plans.
Pension expense
was $26 million in the second quarter compared to $19 million for the prior year quarter.  An analysis of restructuring related expenses by segment, type and geographic region is detailed on pages 14 and 15 of this release.  The previously announced three-year restructuring plan is anticipated to result in annualized cost savings of approximately $235 million in 2007 and $280 million in 2008, consistent with previous estimates.  Restructuring savings realized in the second quarter are estimated at $58 million compared to $29 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the second quarter, $45 million were related to the Brokerage segment, primarily for workforce reduction.
Restructuring expense
translation increased net income by $0.01 per share compared to the prior year quarter.
Foreign currency
on continuing operations was 34.8% for the second quarter compared to 34.5% for the prior year quarter.  The variance from the anticipated effective tax rate of 34.0% is primarily attributable to the tax on a sale of a business during the quarter.   The company anticipates a recurring effective tax rate on continuing operations of 34.0% for 2007.
Effective tax rate
were 322 million for the second quarter compared to 345 million in the prior year quarter.  During the second quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 6.7 million shares of common stock for $279 million at an average price of $41.53 per share.  As of June 30, 2007, the company had approximately $300 million of remaining authorization under the existing $2 billion share repurchase program.
Diluted average shares outstanding
SECOND QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue, pretax income and pretax margins in the second quarter of 2007 and 2006.   The second quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  Segments" on page 14 of this press release.
2
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue increased 9% compared to the prior year quarter with organic revenue growth of 6%.  Americas organic revenue increased 8% due primarily to strong new business and effective management of the renewal book portfolio.  U.K. organic revenue increased 6% due primarily to new business and an improved retention rate.  EMEA organic revenue increased 3% with modest growth in continental Europe and strong growth in emerging markets.  Asia Pacific organic revenue increased 5% reflecting strong growth in most Asian markets, partially offset by continued weakness in Australia.  Reinsurance organic revenue increased 4% due primarily to strong growth of facultative placements.
 
 
Compensation and benefits increased 8% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a $31 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, higher incentive compensation and investments in talent, partially offset by benefits related to the restructuring program and pension expense savings.  Other expenses increased 1%, including a $17 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a $30 million non-recurring gain from the sale of certain businesses.
Second quarter pretax income was $278 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 14 of this press release, pretax income increased 20% to $269 million and pretax margin increased 150 basis points to 17.8% versus the prior year quarter.
 
3
CONSULTING
 
Consulting revenue increased 5% to $325 million compared to the prior year quarter with an organic revenue decline of 1%.  Organic revenue in Consulting Services increased 6% due to growth in most major practice groups and geographies.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing decreased 23% due primarily to the previously announced termination of an outsourcing contract.
 
 
Total expenses decreased 2% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits related to the restructuring program and other operational improvements, partially offset by an $8 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Second quarter pretax income increased 91% to $44 million and the pretax margin increased       610 basis points to 13.5% versus the prior year quarter.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 14, pretax income increased 92% to $48 million and the pretax margin increased 670 basis points to 14.8%.
4
 
INSURANCE UNDERWRITING
 
 
Underwriting revenue increased 21% to $610 million compared to $505 million in the prior year quarter.  Accident & Health and Life (A&H and L) organic revenue, which is based on written premiums and fees, increased 20% attributable to strong growth of the Medicare Advantage product provided by the Sterling Life Insurance subsidiary (Sterling).
Insurance
Sterling and certain other leading providers of Medicare Advantage Private Fee for Service products voluntarily discontinued marketing of this product on June 22, 2007 at the request of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services and, due to a recently enacted law limiting the enrollment period for Medicare Advantage policies, Sterling's general marketing of Medicare Advantage is not expected to commence again before November 2007.  For the six months ended June 30, 2007, Sterling accounted for 32% of total A&H and L revenue and 9% of total A&H and L pretax income.
All remaining Property & Casualty (P&C) business was placed into run-off in the fourth quarter 2006.  As organic growth calculations are based on written premium, organic growth comparisons in P&C are not meaningful.    
 
Benefits to policyholders increased 36% to $355 million versus the prior year quarter due primarily to strong growth in Sterling.  Compensation and benefits increased 4% to $100 million
5
versus the prior year quarter due primarily to commissions associated with growth in Sterling.  Other expenses increased 21% to $88 million versus the prior year quarter principally reflecting an increase in marketing related costs for Sterling and higher professional fees.
Second quarter pretax income decreased 11% to $67 million and the pretax margin was 11.0%.  Also included in the Underwriting segment is a $2 million pretax loss attributable to the P&C runoff business.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 14, pretax income decreased 9% to $68 million and the pretax margin was 11.1%.
Subsequent to the close of the second quarter, the Company announced that it was considering strategic options for the Accident & Health and Life business (CICA and its subsidiaries).
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
increased to $44 million in the second quarter compared to $18 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to dividends received from holdings in certain private equity investments.
Unallocated investment income
were $34 million in the second quarter compared to $30 million in the prior year quarter.   was unchanged at $34 million in the second quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
Unallocated expenses
Interest expense
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will host a conference call on Wednesday, August 1, 2007 at 10:00 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
About Aon
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting.  There are 43,000 employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries.  Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our
6
ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, our ability to successfully execute strategic options for our Combined Insurance subsidiary, the impact of current, pending and future regulatory and legislative actions that affect our ability to market and sell, and be reimbursed at current levels for, our Sterling subsidiary's Medicare Advantage health plans, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the impact of the analysis of practices relating to stock options, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth, a measure that management believes is important to evaluate changes in revenue from existing operations.  We believe that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items, and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium.  A reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  The supplemental organic revenue growth information does not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  It should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
This press release also includes supplemental information related to several measures - income per share, expenses, and margins - that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that impacted revenue and pretax income in the comparable periods.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  The measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
 
 
7
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations
 
(1)  Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
(2)  Adoption of FASB Statement No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payments,"  effective January 1, 2006.
(3)  Tax rate from continuing operations is 34.8% and 34.5% for the second quarters ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and 33.4% and 34.7% for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
(4)  Tax rate from discontinued operations is 33.3% and 37.9% for the second quarters ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and 40.0% and 38.2% for the six months ended June 30, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
8
Aon Corporation
Revenue from Continuing Operations
 
(1)   Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
  Includes the impact of investment income, reimbursable expenses, adjustment between written and earned premium and fees in insurance underwriting only, and unusual items.
(2)
 
  Organic revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers and items described in (2).  Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth within the Insurance Underwriting segment.
(3)
 
9
 
 
(1)   Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
Includes the impact of investment income, reimbursable expenses, adjustment between written and earned premium and fees in insurance underwriting only, and unusual items.
(2)
         
Organic revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers and items described in (2). Written premiums and fees are the basis for organic revenue growth within the Insurance Underwriting segment.
(3)
         
10
Aon Corporation - Segments
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services - Continuing Operations
 
 
Consulting - Continuing Operations
 
(1)      Certain amounts relating to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
11
Aon Corporation - Segments
Insurance Underwriting - Continuing Operations
 
Reconciliation of operating segment income before provision for income tax to income from continuing operations before provision for income tax:
 
(1)   Certain amounts related to discontinued operations have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation.
12
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Diluted Earnings Per Share
Second Quarter and Six Months Ended June 30, 2007 and 2006
 
13
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Segments
Second Quarter and Six Months Ended June 30, 2007 and 2006 (1)
 
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue and pretax income in 2007 and 2006, which are described in this schedule. The pretax income (loss) amounts and related margins shown in the captions "Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax - as adjusted" are non-GAAP measures.
(1)
 
14
Aon Corporation
2005 Restructuring Plan
By Type:
 
By Region:
 
15
 
16

Exhibit 99.2
News from Aon
Aon Corporation Explores Strategic Options for
Combined Insurance Co.
- - Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today announced that it is considering strategic options for Combined Insurance Company of America (CICA) and its subsidiaries.
CHICAGO, IL  July 31, 2007
Greg Case, Aon's President and CEO, said, "Combined is a great company with a longstanding record of success, and I'm confident that it will continue to succeed in the future.  We are making preparations for a spin-off of the company to our shareholders, but we anticipate receiving inquiries from potential buyers and are prepared to respond accordingly."
CICA and its subsidiaries, including Sterling Life Insurance Company, provide accident, health and life insurance coverage, in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Asia and Australia, primarily through more than 7,000 career insurance agents.
Aon has engaged Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co., and Aon Capital Markets as advisors on any potential related transaction.  Any interested parties should inquire directly with our advisors.
About Aon
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting.  There are 43,000 employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries.  Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings,
our ability to successfully execute strategic options for our Combined Insurance subsidiary, the impact of current, pending and future regulatory and legislative actions that affect our ability to market and sell, and be reimbursed at current levels for, our Sterling subsidiary's Medicare Advantage health plans, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the impact of the analysis of practices relating to stock options, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
2


