FILE:AON/AON-8K-20070503160844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
o
  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 3, 2007, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)(c)    Not applicable.
(d)            Exhibits:
 
2
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
3
 
4

Exhibit 99.1
News from Aon
Aon Reports First Quarter 2007 Results
First Quarter 2007 Highlights
                 
Net income from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, increased 37% to $0.70
                 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue grew 6% with organic revenue growth of 3%
                 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services pretax margin was 16.6% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 170 basis points to 18.5% from 16.8%
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 14.3% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 320 basis points to 14.9% from 11.7%
                 
Repurchased 9.5 million shares for $345 million
                 
Received
U.S. Insurer's
2007 Primary Broker, Reinsurance Broker, Property Broker, Casualty Broker and Surplus Lines Broker of the Year Awards
CHICAGO, IL - May 3, 2007
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
Net income
increased 8% to $213 million or $0.66 per share, compared to $198 million or $0.57 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income from continuing operations increased 23% to $212 million or $0.66 per share, compared to $173 million or $0.50 per share for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted first quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliations of non-GAAP measures on pages 12 and 13 of this press release.  Net income from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, i
ncreased 37% to $0.70 compared to $0.51 for the prior year quarter.
"Our first quarter results reflect a strong start to the year highlighted by organic revenue growth of 8% in Brokerage Americas, excluding contingent commissions, despite soft market conditions.  The strength of our industry-leading global network of resources and capabilities, combined with efforts focused on productivity and expense management, led
to improvement in all three of our key financial metrics:  organic growth, margin expansion and earnings improvement," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer, Aon Corporation.  "We continue to make investments in new markets and talent that will drive future growth.  Our balance sheet is strong and we repurchased $345 million of stock during the quarter, highlighting our commitment to creating long-term shareholder value and a belief in the underlying strength of Aon."
FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Total
increased 10% to $2.4 billion with organic revenue growth of 5%.  increased 9% or $171 million to $2.1 billion due primarily to a $69 million increase in benefits to policyholders, a $61 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange and a $21 million settlement of litigation for acquired employees in the Reinsurance business, partially offset by a $23 million decrease in restructuring expense.
revenue
Total expenses
Restructuring expense
was $10 million in the first quarter compared to $33 million for the prior year quarter. 
The previously announced three-year restructuring plan is anticipated to result in cumulative pretax charges of $365 million and annualized cost savings of approximately $235 million in 2007 and $280 million in 2008, on track with previous estimates.  An analysis of restructuring related expenses by segment, type and geographic region are detailed on pages 13 and 14 of this release.  Restructuring savings realized in the first quarter are estimated at $46 million compared to $18 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the first quarter, $35 million was related to the Brokerage segment, primarily for workforce reduction.
Foreign currency
translation gains positively impacted net income by $0.01 per share compared to the prior year quarter due to a weaker U.S. dollar.
on continuing operations was 31.8% for the first quarter compared to 35.0% for the prior year quarter.  The effective tax rate for the first quarter was impacted by favorable resolution of certain tax items.  Compared to an anticipated effective tax rate of 34%, these items favorably impacted net income from continuing operations by $0.02 per share as highlighted on page 12 of this press release.  The company expects a normal effective tax rate on continuing operations of 34% for 2007.
Effective tax rate
Diluted average shares outstanding
were 324 million for the first quarter compared to 350 million in the prior year quarter.  During the first quarter, the Company repurchased approximately 9.5 million shares of common stock for $345 million at an average price of $36.35 per share.  As of March 31, 2007, the company had approximately $582 million available for repurchase under the existing two billion dollar share repurchase program.
Discontinued operations
after-tax income in the first quarter was $1 million compared to $24 million or $0.07 per share in the prior year quarter.  Income from discontinued operations in the prior year quarter primarily reflects the reclassification of Aon Warranty Group and Construction Program Group into discontinued operations.
2
FIRST QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue, pretax income and pretax margins in the first quarter 2007 and 2006.   The first quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures  Segments" on page 13 of this press release.
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services revenue increased 6% compared to the prior year quarter with organic revenue growth of 3%.  The prior year quarter included $35 million of revenue in the Americas related to the contribution of Cambridge preferred stock to a U.K. pension plan, which is excluded from the calculation of organic revenue growth.
Americas organic revenue, excluding contingent commissions, increased 8% due primarily to strong new business in U.S. retail and effective renewal book management in both U.S. retail and Latin America.  U.K. organic revenue declined 11% due primarily to lower new business and soft market conditions, partially offset by an improved retention rate.  EMEA organic revenue increased 3% due primarily to a higher retention rate in Europe and strong growth in emerging markets.  Asia Pacific organic revenue increased 8% reflecting strong new business in emerging markets in Asia, partially offset by soft market conditions in Australia.  Reinsurance organic revenue increased in Canada and Latin America, offset by soft market conditions and higher cedant retentions.
 
3
Compensation and benefits increased 5% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a $36 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.  Investments in new talent were largely offset by lower restructuring costs and pension expense.  Other expenses increased 10% due primarily to a $21 million settlement of litigation in Reinsurance and a $12 million unfavorable impact from foreign exchange.
First quarter pretax income was $242 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 13 of this press release, pretax income increased 20% to $270 million and pretax margin increased 170 basis points to 18.5% versus the prior year quarter.
CONSULTING
 
Consulting revenue increased 7% to $329 million compared to the prior year quarter with organic revenue growth of 1%.  Organic revenue in Consulting Services grew 4% attributable to Financial Advisory and Litigation Consulting (FALC), retirement consulting and Asia Pacific.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing decreased 11% due primarily to the previously announced termination of an outsourcing contract.
 
4
Compensation and benefits and other expenses were both unfavorably impacted by foreign exchange, largely offset by benefits related to the restructuring program and other operational improvements.
First quarter pretax income increased 57% to $47 million and the pretax margin increased 460 basis points to 14.3% versus the prior year quarter.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 13, pretax income increased 36% to $49 million and the pretax margin increased 320 basis points to 14.9%.
INSURANCE UNDERWRITING
 
Insurance
Underwriting revenue increased 16% to $574 million compared to $495 million in the prior year quarter.  A&H and Life organic revenue, which is based on written premiums and fees, increased 15% attributable to strong growth of a health product provided by the Sterling Life Insurance subsidiary (Sterling).
All remaining Property & Casualty (P&C) business was placed into run-off in the fourth quarter 2006.  As organic growth calculations are based on written premium, organic growth comparisons in P&C are not meaningful.
 
5
Benefits to policyholders increased 27% to $323 million versus the prior year quarter due primarily to strong growth in Sterling.  Compensation and benefits increased 6% to $102 million versus the prior year quarter due primarily to commissions associated with growth in Sterling.  Other expenses decreased 2% to $90 million versus the prior year quarter principally reflecting the runoff of remaining P&C businesses.
First quarter pretax income increased 11% to $59 million and the pretax margin was 10.3%.  Included in the Underwriting segment is a $2 million pretax loss attributable to the P&C runoff business.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 13, pretax income increased 13% to $60 million and the pretax margin was 10.5%.
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
Unallocated investment income
was $32 million in the first quarter compared to a loss of $3 million in the prior year quarter.  The first quarter included dividends received from holdings in certain private equity investments. The prior year quarter included a loss related to the revaluation of Endurance warrants.
Unallocated expenses
increased $11 million to $34 million in the first quarter due primarily to higher professional fees, including the accounting and legal expenses associated with a review of historical equity compensation practices.  was $35 million in the first quarter compared to $31 million in the prior year quarter.
Interest expense
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will host a conference call on Friday, May 4, 2007, at 10:00 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
About Aon
Aon Corporation (www.aon.com) is a leading provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting, and specialty insurance underwriting.  There are 43,000 employees working in Aon's 500 offices in more than 120 countries.  Backed by broad resources, industry knowledge and technical expertise, Aon professionals help a wide range of clients develop effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, our ability to execute the stock repurchase program, potential regulatory or legislative changes that would affect our ability to sell, and be reimbursed at current levels for, our Sterling subsidiary's Medicare
6
health product, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, changes in revenues and earnings due to the elimination of contingent commissions, other uncertainties surrounding a new compensation model, the impact of investigations brought by state attorneys general, state insurance regulators, federal prosecutors, and federal regulators, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the impact of the analysis of practices relating to stock options, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and the difference in ultimate paid claims in our underwriting companies from actuarial estimates.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth, a measure that management believes is important to evaluate changes in revenue from existing operations.  We believe that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses, unusual items, and for the underwriting segment only, an adjustment between written and earned premium.  A reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  The supplemental organic revenue growth information does not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  It should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their revenue performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
This press release also includes supplemental information related to several measures - income per share, expenses, and margins - that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that impacted revenue and pretax income in the comparable periods.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  The measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
7
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations
 
 
8
Aon Corporation
Revenue from Continuing Operations
 
 
9
Aon Corporation- Segments
 
10
Aon Corporation- Segments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Diluted Earnings Per Share
First Quarter Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006
 
 
 
12
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Segments
First Quarter Ended March 31, 2007 and 2006 (1)
 
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue and pretax income in 2007 and 2006, which are described in this schedule.  The pretax income (loss) amounts and related margins shown in the captions "Income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax - as adjusted" are non-GAAP measures.
(1)
            
 
13
Aon Corporation
2005 Restructuring Plan
 
 
 
 
14
 
15


