FILE:AON/AON-8K-20080822160818.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
                                          
 
On August 22, 2008, Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Aon"), and Benfield Group Limited, a Bermuda company and an independent insurance intermediary ("Benfield"), issued an announcement (the "Announcement") under Section 2.5 of the U.K. City Code on Takeovers and Mergers (the "Code") disclosing that they have reached a definitive agreement pursuant to which Aon will acquire all of the share capital of Benfield (the "Acquisition").  The Acquisition will be effected by a newly-formed, wholly-owned Bermuda subsidiary of Aon through an amalgamation under the Bermuda Companies Act for an aggregate cash purchase price of 844 million or 3.50 per Benfield share.  Also on August 22, 2008, Aon and Benfield contemporaneously entered into an Implementation Agreement (the "Implementation Agreement"), which sets forth certain key terms relative to the Acquisition.
 
The Acquisition, which both Aon and Benfield have agreed in the Implementation Agreement will be subject to the Code, is subject to, among other things, the parties obtaining certain antitrust and regulatory approvals including those required in the United States, United Kingdom and Bermuda, and certain other representations, warranties and covenants of Aon and Benfield contained in the Implementation Agreement and the Announcement.  In addition, Benfield will be obligated pursuant to the terms of the Implementation Agreement to pay Aon a fee equal to one percent of the purchase price in the event the Acquisition is not completed due to the occurrence of specific events.  The Implementation Agreement also contains certain non-solicitation covenants applicable to Benfield and certain matching rights granted to Aon.
 
The Acquisition is also subject to obtaining the approval of seventy-five percent (75%) of the Benfield shareholders present and voting at a special general meeting of the Benfield shareholders (the "Meeting").  Aon has received irrevocable undertakings from the certain directors of Benfield that indicate their intent to approve the Acquisition at the Meeting.
 
The foregoing summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Announcement and the Implementation Agreement, copies of which are attached hereto as Exhibits 2.1 and 2.2, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 7.01              Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On August 22, 2008, Aon and Benfield hosted an investor conference call to discuss the Acquisition that included the investor presentation attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 8.01
                                         
Other Events.
 
On August 22, 2008, Aon and Benfield issued a joint press release (the "Press Release") in the United States announcing the Acquisition.  A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
As disclosed in Aon's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Aon's Board of Directors previously approved a share repurchase program with a maximum aggregate repurchase authorization of $4.6 billion.  The agreement between Aon and Benfield does not alter any of the terms of the existing share repurchase program, including the aggregate amount authorized for repurchase under the program; however, Aon anticipates that repurchases under the share repurchase program will be discontinued until at least the first quarter of 2009.
Item 9.01
                                            
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) - (c)
         
Not applicable.
 
(d)
                                   
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART IN, INTO OR FROM ANY RESTRICTED JURISDICTION
 
22 August 2008
 
Recommended Cash Acquisition of Benfield Group Limited
 
Summary
 
The boards of Aon Corporation and Benfield Group Limited ("" or the "") are pleased to announce that they have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition of Benfield by Bidco, a to be incorporated wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, (the ""). It is intended that the Acquisition will be implemented by way of an Amalgamation under the Bermuda Companies Act.
     
Benfield
Company
Acquisition
 
The Acquisition price of 350 pence per Benfield Share values Benfield's existing issued share capital at approximately 738 million and the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield at approximately 844 million. The consideration will be financed from Aon's existing cash resources.
     
 
The Acquisition price of 350 pence per Benfield Share represents
     
 
a premium of approximately:
29.2 per cent. to the Closing Price of 271 pence per Benfield Share on 21 August 2008, being the last Business Day prior to the date of this announcement; and
  
 
40.1 per cent. to the average Closing Price of approximately 250 pence per Benfield Share for the 30 trading days ended 21 August 2008.
  
 
The combination of Benfield, a leading independent reinsurance intermediary, with Aon' s existing reinsurance operations will create a truly global, diverse reinsurance franchise. The Acquisition is expected to enhance Aon's capabilities in the significant Florida and South East US property-catastrophe markets as well as in the rapidly growing Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions. In addition, the combination offers the opportunity to capitalise on the significant investment both businesses have made in risk modelling and analytics to create a global market leading capability in this key area.
     
 
Aon believes there to be a strong cultural affinity between Aon and Benfield. Both focus on excellence of client service and both continue to attract the highest calibre of employees. Aon believes it can build upon these strengths to further develop the combined business' growth potential. It would be Aon's intention that Benfield and the existing reinsurance operations of Aon would be fully integrated and jointly branded Aon Benfield Re.
     
 
The directors of Benfield, who have been so advised by Merrill Lynch, consider the terms of the Acquisition to be fair and reasonable. In providing its advice, Merrill Lynch has taken into account the commercial assessments of the directors of Benfield. Accordingly, the directors of Benfield intend unanimously to recommend that Benfield Shareholders vote to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting (or, in the event that the Acquisition is implemented by way of a takeover offer, to accept or procure acceptance of such offer) as certain of the directors of Benfield have irrevocably undertaken to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings of 38,324,439 Benfield Shares (and, where applicable, of their connected persons), in aggregate representing approximately 18.2 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital. These remain binding in the event of a competing offer being made for Benfield.
     
 
Bidco has also received irrevocable undertakings to approve the
     
Acquisition at the Special General Meeting from Benfield Shareholders in respect of 15,239,489 Benfield Shares, in aggregate representing a further 7.2 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital. These remain binding in the event of a competing offer being made for Benfield.
 
Accordingly, Bidco has received, in aggregate, irrevocable undertakings to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting from Benfield Shareholders in respect of 53,563,928 Benfield Shares, representing approximately 25.4 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital. Further details of these irrevocable undertakings are set out in Appendix 3 to this announcement.
     
 
A Shareholder Circular, setting out the details of the Acquisition and the procedures to be followed to approve the Acquisition, will be posted to Benfield Shareholders shortly. The Acquisition is expected to become effective by 31 December 2008.
     
 
The Acquisition will be subject to the Conditions, including the approval of the Amalgamation Agreement by Benfield Shareholders at the Special General Meeting, approval of the change of control contemplated by the Acquisition by relevant regulatory authorities and anti-trust clearance in the US.
     
 
Commenting on the Acquisition, Greg Case, CEO of Aon, said:
 
"The new Aon Benfield Re division will build on our recent progress to further enhance organic growth, expand margins, and drive shareholder value. Aon and Benfield share a common focus on excellence in client service, and both recognise the importance of being the destination of choice for the best talent in our industry. The strong cultural fit between our firms will enable us to quickly realise the benefits of this transaction, and the value added for our clients and shareholders, in a seamless fashion following the close of our transaction."
 
Commenting on the Acquisition, Grahame Chilton, CEO of Benfield, said:
 
"The Benfield Board believes that the Acquisition provides an excellent outcome for our shareholders, customers and employees. The Benfield business has achieved great success as the leading independent reinsurance intermediary and I look forward to this success continuing as part of the Aon Group."
"
The combination of the two businesses will give Benfield access to substantial further investment and resources, enabling us to continue the innovation and creativity which has underpinned our success."
 
Commenting on the Acquisition, Andrew Appel, CEO of Aon Re, said:
 
"The combination of our two firms will create an unparalleled set of capabilities to deliver distinctive client value, drive innovation in analytics and capital management, and enhance the value proposition for colleagues and team members in both businesses."
 
Commenting on the Acquisition, Michael O'Halleran, Executive Chairman of Aon he said:
 
"I have significant respect and admiration for the Benfield organisation. I look forward to working with Grahame, Andrew and our colleagues and team members as we combine the strengths of our two organisations into the leading reinsurance and capital management advisor in the world."
 
This summary should be read in conjunction with the full text of the following announcement and the Appendices.
 
Merrill Lynch is acting as financial adviser and corporate broker to Benfield. Credit Suisse is acting as financial adviser to Aon.
 
The Acquisition will be subject to the conditions set out in Appendix 1 to the full announcement and to the further terms and conditions to be set out in the Shareholder Circular. Appendix 2 to the full announcement contains bases and sources of certain information contained in the announcement. Details of irrevocable undertakings received by Aon are set out in Appendix 3 to the full announcement. Certain definitions and terms used in this announcement are set out in Appendix 4.
 
Terms used in this summary shall have the meaning given to them in the full announcement.
 
 
As Benfield is incorporated and has its registered office in Bermuda, the Code does not apply to the Acquisition. However, pursuant to the terms of the Implementation Agreement, Benfield and Bidco have agreed that the provisions of the Code will apply to the Acquisition. Benfield agrees to comply with the Code in relation to the Acquisition for so long as the Board determines that to do so it is in the best interests of Benfield. Aon has undertaken to comply with the Code for so long as (i) the Benfield Board recommend the Acquisition; (ii) the Benfield Board do not withdraw or adversely modify the recommendation of the Acquisition; (iii) the Benfield Board do not resolve to cease complying with the Code; and (iv) any other potential offeror also agrees to comply with the Code within a certain period following its offer or approach to Benfield. Benfield and Aon have acknowledged that the Takeover Panel does not have jurisdiction over the Acquisition and have agreed to appoint an independent committee with delegated authority from the Benfield Board to determine the application and interpretation of the Code. In the event of any dispute arising between affected parties which cannot be resolved, Benfield and Aon have agreed to jointly refer the dispute to an independent third party who has, in the opinion of Benfield and Aon acting reasonably, suitable experience and expertise in respect of the Code to determine that dispute.
 
The release, publication or distribution of this announcement in jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and, therefore, any persons who are subject to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom should inform themselves about, and observe, any applicable requirements. In particular the ability of Benfield Shareholders who are not resident in the United Kingdom to vote their Benfield Shares with respect to the Amalgamation at the Special General Meeting may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. This announcement has been prepared for the purposes of complying with English law and with regard to the Code, and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this announcement had been prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction outside of England.
 
This announcement is not intended to, and does not constitute, or form part of, an offer to sell, purchase, exchange or subscribe for or a solicitation of an offer to sell, purchase or exchange any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction
pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise. This announcement does not constitute a prospectus or a prospectus equivalent document. The Acquisition will be made solely pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Circular which will contain the full terms and conditions of the Acquisition, including details of how to vote in respect of the Amalgamation. Any decision in respect of, or other response to, the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information contained in the Shareholders Circular. Benfield Shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the Acquisition once it has been despatched.
 
Copies of this announcement and any formal documentation relating to the Acquisition are not being, and must not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction and persons receiving such documents (including custodians, nominees and trustees) must not mail or otherwise forward, distribute or send it in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. If the Acquisition is implemented by way of an offer (unless otherwise determined by Aon and permitted by applicable law and regulation), the offer may not be made directly or indirectly, in or into, or by the use of mails or any means or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, facsimile, e-mail or other electronic transmission, telex or telephone) of intestate or foreign commerce of, or of any facility of a national, state or other securities exchange of any Restricted Jurisdiction and the offer may not be capable of acceptance by any such use, means, instrumentality or facilities.
 
Notice to US investors in Benfield
 
The Acquisition relates to the shares of a Bermudian company and is being made by means of an amalgamation provided for under Bermudian company law. A transaction effected by means of an amalgamation is not subject to the tender offer rules or the proxy solicitation rules under the US Exchange Act. Accordingly, the Acquisition is subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in Bermuda to amalgamations which differ from the disclosure requirements of United States tender offer and proxy solicitation rules. If, in the future, Aon exercises its right to implement the Acquisition by way of a takeover offer and determines to extend the offer into the United States, the Acquisition will be made in compliance with applicable United States laws and regulations. Financial information included in this announcement and the Shareholder Circular has been or will have been prepared in accordance with IFRS accounting standards that may not be comparable to financial information of US companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
 
Forward looking statements
 
This announcement may contain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results and business of Benfield and certain plans and objectives of Aon with respect thereto. These forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Generally, these forward looking statements often use the words such as "will", "may", "should", "continue", "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates" or similar expressions. These statements are based on the assumptions and assessments made by Benfield or Aon in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, future developments and other
factors they believe appropriate. By their nature, forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and management's plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
 
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements are the ability to combine or reorganise successfully the businesses of the Aon and Benfield groups to the extent proposed and to realise expected synergies from that combination, future revenues may be lower than expected, costs of future acquisitions and business activities may be higher than expected, changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
 
None of Aon, Bidco nor Benfield undertakes any obligation (except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the rules of the London Stock Exchange) to revise or update any forward looking statement contained in this announcement, regardless of whether that statement is affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Credit Suisse, which is authorised and regulated in the UK by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for Aon and will act for Bidco and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to anyone other than Aon and Bidco for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition or any other matters referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
 
Merrill Lynch is acting as financial adviser and corporate broker to Benfield and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to anyone other than Benfield for providing the protections afforded to clients of Merrill Lynch nor for giving advice in relation to the Acquisition.
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE NOT FOR RELEASE, PUBLICATION OR DISTRIBUTION IN WHOLE OR IN PART IN, INTO OR FROM ANY RESTRICTED JURISDICTION
 
22 August 2008
 
Recommended Cash Acquisition of Benfield Group Limited
 
1.
                                     
Introduction
 
The boards of Aon and Benfield are pleased to announce that they have reached agreement on the terms of a recommended cash acquisition of Benfield by Bidco, a to be incorporated wholly owned subsidiary of Aon.
 
2.
                                     
The Acquisition
 
It is intended that the Acquisition be implemented by way of an Amalgamation under the Bermuda Companies Act.
 
Under the terms of the Acquisition, which will be subject to the Conditions and other terms set out in Appendix 1 to this announcement and to the further terms to be set out in the Shareholder Circular, Benfield Shareholders will receive:
 
 
The Acquisition price of 350 pence per Benfield Share values Benfield's existing issued share capital at approximately 738 million and the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield at approximately 844 million.
 
The Acquisition price of 350 pence per Benfield Share represents a premium of approximately:
 
29.2 per cent. to the Closing Price of 271 pence per Benfield Share on 21 August 2008, being the last Business Day prior to the date of this announcement; and
                
 
40.1 per cent. to the average Closing Price of approximately 250 pence per Benfield Share for the 30 trading days ended 21 August 2008.
                
 
Under the Acquisition, Benfield has the right to elect within 14 days of this Announcement for a Loan Note Alternative to be made available. In the event that this election is made Benfield Shareholders will be informed of the terms of the Loan Notes.
 
Benfield shareholders who are registered on the Benfield shareholder register on the record date as at 29 August 2008 will remain entitled to receive the interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share payable on 26 September 2008.
 
3.
                                     
Recommendation
 
The directors of Benfield, who have been so advised by Merrill Lynch, consider the terms of the Acquisition to be fair and reasonable. In
 
providing its advice, Merrill Lynch has taken into account the commercial assessments of the directors of Benfield.
 
Accordingly, the directors of Benfield intend unanimously to recommend that Benfield Shareholders vote to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting (or in the event that the Acquisition is implemented by way of a takeover offer to accept or procure acceptance of such offer), as certain of the directors have irrevocably undertaken to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings of 38,324,439 Benfield shares in aggregate representing approximately 18.2 per cent. of Benfield's issued share capital.
 
4.
                                     
Background to and Reasons for the Recommendation
 
Benfield has held discussions from time to time with potential partners but this is the first time that a proposal has been made that offers shareholders the certainty of cash at an attractive premium to the current share price. The directors of Benfield believe that the Acquisition delivers substantial value to Benfield shareholders. In considering whether to recommend the Acquisition, the directors of Benfield have taken into account the following:
 
the Acquisition represents an attractive valuation for Benfield Shareholders today which reflects the Company's future growth potential;
                 
 
prospects for the combined Aon Benfield reinsurance business are expected to be stronger than those for Benfield standalone, which is reflected in the attractive valuation being offered; and
                 
 
the Acquisition represents an opportunity for Benfield Shareholders to realise their entire investment in Benfield, in cash at a premium without the risks associated with public market sentiment and the current economic environment.
                 
 
5.
                                     
Background to and reasons for the Acquisition
 
Benfield is a leading independent reinsurance intermediary in terms of market reputation and standing. The business has a strong industry reputation for its excellent client service, leading analytics capability and record of innovation and growth. Aon believes that, as part of the Aon group, the combined Aon/Benfield reinsurance operations can continue to build upon these strengths and develop the business' positioning. It would be Aon's intention that Benfield and the existing reinsurance operations of Aon would be fully integrated and jointly branded Aon Benfield Re. Following the close of the transaction Grahame Chilton will serve as vice
 
chairman of Aon Group, reporting to Greg Case, chief executive officer, Aon Corporation. Mr Chilton will join the Aon Corporation Executive Committee and the Aon Benfield Re Executive Committee.
 
The combination of Benfield, a leading independent reinsurance intermediary, with Aon's existing reinsurance operations will create a truly global, diverse reinsurance franchise. The Acquisition is expected to enhance Aon's capabilities in the significant Florida and South East US property-catastrophe markets as well as in the rapidly growing Asia-Pacific and Latin American regions. In addition, the combination offers the opportunity to capitalise on the significant investment both businesses have made in risk modelling and analytics to create a global market leading capability in this key area.
 
Aon views the Aon reinsurance operations and Benfield as having highly complementary franchises. In particular, Benfield will enhance Aon's existing capabilities in:
 
the Florida and South East US property-catastrophe market, where Benfield's pioneering ReMetrics capability, together with its longstanding market experience, delivers to its customer base a uniquely attractive risk analysis proposition;
                 
 
developing markets in Asia, Central and Eastern Europe as well as Latin America and the Caribbean. Benfield's reputation for its long standing client relationships in Japan and other Asian markets in particular is extremely strong;
                 
 
global analytics and client facing technology. Benfield's expertise in the area of analytics, modelling and on-line client facing capability will be very complementary to Aon's strength in US based analytics; and
                 
 
key major accounts in the UK property market.
                 
 
In addition to the above, Aon believes there to be a strong cultural affinity between Aon and Benfield. Both focus on excellence of client service and both continue to attract the highest calibre of employees.
 
The transaction is expected to generate approximately 65 million in annual cost savings beginning in 2009 primarily from shared administrative and support services across both Aon Re Global and Benfield.
6.
                                     
Information on Benfield
 
Benfield, headquartered in London, is a leading independent reinsurance and insurance intermediary. The Company has an international network of 50 offices located in 26 countries which provide insurance and reinsurance intermediary, risk advisory and brokerage services. The company's operating divisions include International, U.S. and Benfield Corporate Risk (BCR). Benfield's customer base spans more than 100 countries.
 
For the year ended 31 December 2007, Benfield's total turnover was 339.2 million (2006: 355.3 million), profit before tax was 50.9 million (2006: 53.0 million). The net assets of Benfield as at 30 June 2008 were 167.9 million.
 
Further information on Benfield is available on its website at www.benfieldgroup.com.
 
7.
                                     
Information on Bidco and Aon Corporation
 
Bidco will be incorporated in Bermuda as a wholly owned subsidiary of Aon. Aon, based in Chicago, serves its clients via various subsidiaries worldwide. The company's two operating segments include
 
acts as an advisor and insurance broker, helping clients manage their risks, as well as negotiating and placing insurance risk with insurance carriers through our global distribution network; and
                 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services:
 
provides advice and services to clients for employee benefits, compensation, management consulting, communications, strategic human resource consulting, financial advisory and litigation consulting, and human resource outsourcing.
                 
Consulting:
 
For the year ended 31 December 2007, Aon Corporation reported revenues of US$7.5 billion (2006: US$6.9 billion), earnings from continuing operations before income taxes of US$1.0 billion (2006: US$0.7 billion) and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of US$2.10 (2006: US$1.33). As at 30 June 2008, Aon Corporation had total stockholders' equity of US$24.1 billion.
 
Further information on Aon is available on its web site at www.aon.com.
 
8.
                                     
Implementation Agreement
 
Benfield and Aon have entered into an Implementation Agreement in relation to the implementation of the Acquisition and other matters. Pursuant to the Implementation Agreement, Benfield and Aon have agreed
 
to take all steps and actions and prepare all such documents necessary for the Acquisition on a timely basis in accordance with an agreed timetable and in accordance with the terms of the Implementation Agreement and the requirements of the Code, and applicable law and regulations.
 
Certain key provisions of the Implementation Agreement are set out below:
 
Non solicit
 
Benfield has undertaken in the Implementation Agreement that it shall not, and shall procure that none of its Representatives shall directly or indirectly, solicit, encourage, initiate or otherwise seek to procure the submission of any proposal, indication of interest or offer of any kind regarding a Competing Proposal, other than responding to a Competing Proposal where the Directors determine in good faith that the failure to do so would be inconsistent with their fiduciary duties or the matter relates to continuing any discussions that commenced prior to the date of the Implementation Agreement with any third party relating to a Competing Proposal.
 
Matching right
 
Benfield has agreed not to withdraw the Amalgamation or permit any Board recommendation to be withdrawn or modified for a period of 48 hours following the announcement of a Competing Proposal to enable Bidco to exercise its right to match any such Competing Proposal. In the event that Bidco makes a revised offer on terms which are no less favourable than the terms of the Competing Proposal taking into account the circumstances, Benfield has further agreed to give a unanimous and unqualified recommendation of Bidco's revised offer.
 
Break fee
 
Benfield has agreed to pay to Bidco a fee equal to one per cent. of the Offer Value if (i) the Benfield Board fails to recommend or withdraws or modifies its recommendation of the Acquisition or decides not to proceed with the Amalgamation and the Amalgamation subsequently does not proceed; (ii) if the Amalgamation is withdrawn, lapses or is not made and before this time a Superior Proposal has been announced and (although Benfield has not withdrawn or modified its recommendation of the Amalgamation) is successfully completed; or (iii) the Amalgamation does not become effective because Benfield does not comply in a material respect with certain specified obligations under the Implementation Agreement.
Takeover Code
 
As Benfield is incorporated and has its registered office in Bermuda the Code does not apply to the Acquisition. However, in accordance with the requirements of Benfield's Bye-Laws and pursuant to the terms of the Implementation Agreement, Benfield and Bidco have agreed that the provisions of the Code will apply to the Acquisition. Benfield agrees to comply with the Code in relation to the Acquisition for so long as the Board determines that to do so is in the best interests of Benfield.
 
Aon has undertaken to comply with the Code for so long as (i) the Benfield Board recommend the Acquisition; (ii) the Benfield Board do not withdraw or adversely modify the recommendation of the Acquisition; (iii) the Benfield Board do not resolve to cease complying with the Code; and (iv) any other potential offer or also agrees to comply with the Code within a certain period following its offer or approach to Benfield.
 
Benfield and Aon have acknowledged that the Takeover Panel does not have jurisdiction over the Acquisition and have agreed to appoint an independent committee with delegated authority from the Benfield Board to determine the application and interpretation of the Code. In the event of any dispute arising between affected parties which cannot be resolved, Benfield and Aon have agreed to jointly refer the dispute to an independent third party who has, in the opinion of Benfield and Aon acting reasonably, suitable experience and expertise in respect of the Code to determine that dispute.
 
Material conditions
 
Benfield and Bidco have agreed that if any of the Conditions set out in paragraphs 2.1 to 2.4 of Schedule 1 are not satisfied or, if capable of waiver, waived by Bidco before the Long-Stop Effective Date the Acquisition will not proceed.
 
Further information regarding the Implementation Agreement will be set out in the Shareholder Circular.
 
9.
                                     
Irrevocable Undertakings
 
Bidco has received irrevocable undertakings from certain of the directors of Benfield to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting in respect of all of their own beneficial shareholdings of Benfield Shares (and, where applicable, of their connected persons) amounting, in aggregate, to 38,324,439 Benfield Shares, representing approximately 18.2 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital. These remain binding in the event of a competing offer being made for Benfield.
 
Bidco has also received irrevocable undertakings to approve the
 
Acquisition at the Special General Meeting from Benfield Shareholders in respect of 15,239,489 Benfield Shares, in aggregate representing a further 7.2 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital. These remain binding in the event of a competing offer being made for Benfield.
 
Accordingly, Bidco has received, in aggregate, irrevocable undertakings to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting from Benfield Shareholders in respect of 53,563,928 Benfield Shares, representing approximately 25.4 per cent. of Benfield's entire existing issued share capital.
 
Further details of these irrevocable undertakings are set out in Appendix 3 to this announcement.
 
10.
                              
Financing the Acquisition
 
It is estimated that full acceptance of the Offer would result in cash consideration of approximately 844 million being payable to Benfield Shareholders and participants in the Benfield Share Schemes. This cash consideration will be financed from Aon's existing cash resources.
 
Having regard to the Code, Credit Suisse, financial adviser to Aon, is satisfied that sufficient financial resources are currently available to Aon to enable it to satisfy in full the cash consideration payable under the Acquisition.
 
11.
                              
Management, employees and locations
 
Aon has high regard for Benfield's talented staff and will seek to retain the expertise and client relationships of all Benfield's key personnel.
 
Aon intends to safeguard fully the existing employment rights of all Benfield employees and to comply with Benfield's pension obligations for existing employees. Aon has also identified future roles that would, if acceptable, be offered to Benfield key management on completion. Aon has no current intention to change the location of Benfield Group's places of business.
 
12.
                              
Description of the Amalgamation
 
It is intended that the Acquisition be effected by means of an amalgamation between Benfield and Bidco under the Bermuda Companies Act.
 
The Amalgamation will be subject to the Conditions and further terms and conditions referred to in Appendix 1 of this announcement and to be set out in the Shareholder Circular.
 
In order for the Amalgamation to be adopted, the Amalgamation Agreement will require the approval of Benfield Shareholders by the passing of a resolution at the Special General Meeting. The resolution must be approved by 75 per cent. or more of the Benfield Shareholders voting at the Special General Meeting. The approval of the shareholder of Bidco is also required. The quorum for the Special General Meeting is two persons at least holding or representing by proxy more than one-third of the Benfield Shares in issue.
 
The Amalgamation will only become effective upon submission to the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda of an application for registration of the Amalgamated Company and the issue by the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda of a certificate of amalgamation.
 
Under the terms of the proposed Amalgamation Agreement, at the Effective Time, by virtue of the Amalgamation and without any action on the part of Bidco, Benfield or Benfield Shareholders, each Benfield Share (other than Benfield Shares held by Bidco or any subsidiary of Benfield, if any) will be converted into the right to receive the cash consideration referred to in paragraph 2 above and each issued share in the capital of Bidco will be converted into one validly issued and fully paid share in the Amalgamated Company.
 
Any Benfield Shareholder who is not satisfied that he has been offered fair value for his Benfield Shares and who does not vote in favour of the Amalgamation may, within one month of the giving of the notice convening the Special General Meeting, apply to the Court to appraise the value of his Benfield Shares. If the value appraised by the Court is greater than the Acquisition price, then that Benfield Shareholder will receive the difference between the appraised value and the Acquisition price within one month of the Court's appraisal.
 
On the date shown in the certificate of amalgamation, the Amalgamation of Benfield and Bidco and their continuance as one company will become effective, the property, rights and assets of each of Benfield and Bidco, in accordance with the Bermuda Companies Act, will become the property, rights and assets of the Amalgamated Company and the Amalgamated Company will become liable for the obligations and liabilities of each of Benfield and Bidco. In addition, any existing cause of action, claim or liability to prosecution will be unaffected by the Amalgamation; a civil, criminal or administrative action or proceeding pending by or against Benfield or Bidco may be continued to be prosecuted by or against the Amalgamated Company; a conviction against, or ruling, order or judgment in favour of or against, Benfield or Bidco may be enforced by or against the Amalgamated Company; and the certificate of amalgamation
 
will be deemed to be the certificate of incorporation of the Amalgamated Company.
 
It is currently anticipated that the Acquisition will become effective by 31 December 2008 subject to satisfaction of Conditions set out in Appendix 1 to this announcement. Further details on the implementation of the Amalgamation will be set out in the Shareholder Circular.
 
13.
                              
Conditions
 
The Acquisition will be subject to the Conditions, including the approval of the Amalgamation Agreement by Benfield Shareholders at the Special General Meeting, approval of the change of control contemplated by the Acquisition by relevant regulatory authorities and anti-trust clearance in the US.
 
14.
                              
Benfield Share Schemes
 
Participants in the Benfield Share Schemes will be contacted regarding the effect of the Acquisition on their rights under these schemes and provided with further details concerning the proposals which will be made to such participants in due course. Details of the proposals will be set out in the Shareholder Circular and in separate letters to be sent to participants in the Benfield Share Schemes.
 
15.
                              
Convertible Preference Share Holders
 
In accordance with the terms of the proposed Amalgamation Agreement, the convertible preference shares shall be cancelled and converted in accordance with the Bye-Laws.
 
16.
                              
Disclosure of interests in Benfield
 
"), (ii) any short position (whether conditional or absolute and whether in the money or otherwise), including any short positions under derivatives or arrangement in relation to Benfield Securities, nor (iii) borrowed or lent any Benfield Securities (save for any borrowed shares which have been on-lent or sold).
As at the close of business on 21 August 2008, the last Business Day prior to the date of this announcement, neither Aon, Bidco, nor any of the directors of Aon or Bidco, nor, so far as Aon or Bidco are aware, any person acting in concert with Aon Corporation or Bidco has: (i) any interest in, or right to subscribe for, any Benfield Shares or securities convertible or exchangeable into Benfield Shares ("
Benfield Securities
 
For these purposes, "arrangement" includes any indemnity or option arrangement or any agreement or understanding, formal or informal, of
 
whatever nature, relating to Benfield Securities which may be an inducement to deal or refrain from dealing in such securities.
 
In the interests of secrecy prior to this announcement, Bidco has not made any enquiries in this respect of the matters referred to in this paragraph of certain parties who may be deemed to be acting in concert with them for the purposes of the Scheme. Enquiries of such parties will be made as soon as practicable following the date of this announcement and any material disclosure in respect of such parties will be included in the Shareholder Circular.
 
17.
                              
Delisting
 
Prior to the Amalgamation becoming effective, a request will be made by Benfield to the UK Listing Authority to cancel the listing of the Benfield Shares on the Official List and to the London Stock Exchange to cancel the admission to trading of the Benfield Shares on the London Stock Exchange's market for listed securities so that Benfield Shares will cease to be listed on the Official List with effect from the Effective Time. The last day of dealing in Benfield Shares on the London Stock Exchange will be the last dealing day before the Effective Time. In addition, with effect from the Effective Time, entitlements to Benfield Shares held within the CREST system will be cancelled.
 
18.
                              
General
 
Aon and Benfield have agreed that, if Aon or Bidco so elects, the Acquisition may be implemented by way of a takeover offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield as an alternative to the Amalgamation. In this event, that offer will be implemented on the same terms, so far as applicable (subject to appropriate amendments), as those which would apply to the Amalgamation.
 
If the Acquisition is effected by way of a takeover offer and such offer becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects and sufficient acceptances are received, Aon intends to (i) request the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority cancel trading in Benfield Shares on the London Stock Exchange's main market for listed securities and the listing of Benfield Shares on the Official List; and (ii) exercise its rights under section 102 of the Bermuda Companies Act to acquire compulsorily any outstanding Benfield Shares to which such offer relates.
 
The Acquisition will be made on the terms and subject to the Conditions set out in Appendix 1 and to be set out in the Shareholder Circular. Certain definitions and terms used in this announcement are set out in Appendix 4, and the bases and values used in this announcement are set
 
out in Appendix 2.
 
The Shareholder Circular will be despatched to Benfield Shareholders shortly and will include full details of the Acquisition, together with notice of the Special General Meeting and the expected timetable for the implementation of the Acquisition. The Acquisition will be subject to the applicable requirements of the London Stock Exchange and the UK Listing Authority.
 
In deciding whether or not to vote to approve the Acquisition, Benfield Shareholders should rely on the information contained in, and follow the procedures described in, the Shareholder Circular and the Form of Proxy.
 
The release, publication or distribution of this announcement in jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and, therefore, any persons who are subject to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom should inform themselves about, and observe, any applicable requirements. In particular the ability of Benfield Shareholders who are not resident in the United Kingdom to vote their Benfield Shares with respect to the Amalgamation at the Special General Meeting may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. This announcement has been prepared for the purposes of complying with English law and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this announcement had been prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction outside of England.
 
This announcement is not intended to, and does not constitute, or form part of, an offer to sell, purchase, exchange or subscribe for or a solicitation of an offer to sell, purchase or exchange any securities or a solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise. This announcement does not constitute a prospectus or a prospectus equivalent document. The Acquisition will be made solely pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Circular which will contain the full terms and conditions of the Acquisition, including details of how to vote in respect of the Acquisition. Any decision in respect of, or other response to, the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information contained in the Shareholders Circular. Benfield Shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the Acquisition once it has been despatched.
 
Copies of this announcement and any formal documentation relating to the Acquisition are not being, and must not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction and persons receiving such documents (including custodians, nominees and trustees) must not mail or otherwise forward,
 
distribute or send it in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. If the Acquisition is implemented by way of an offer (unless otherwise determined by Aon and permitted by applicable law and regulation), the offer may not be made directly or indirectly, in or into, or by the use of mails or any means or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, facsimile, e-mail or other electronic transmission, telex or telephone) of intestate or foreign commerce of, or of any facility of a national, state or other securities exchange of any Restricted Jurisdiction and the offer may not be capable of acceptance by any such use, means, instrumentality or facilities.
 
19.
                              
Notice to US investors in Benfield
 
The Acquisition relates to the shares of a Bermudian company and is being made by means of an amalgamation provided for under Bermudian company law. A transaction effected by means of an amalgamation is not subject to the tender offer rules or the proxy solicitation rules under the US Exchange Act. Accordingly, the Acquisition is subject to the disclosure requirements and practices applicable in Bermuda to amalgamations which differ from the disclosure requirements of United States tender offer and proxy solicitation rules. If, in the future, Aon exercises its right to implement the Acquisition by way of a takeover offer and determines to extend the offer into the United States, the Acquisition will be made in compliance with applicable United States laws and regulations. Financial information included in this announcement and the Shareholder Circular has been or will have been prepared in accordance with IFRS accounting standards that may not be comparable to financial information of US companies or companies whose financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
 
20.
                              
Forward looking statements
 
This announcement may contain forward looking statements with respect to the financial condition, results and business of Benfield and certain plans and objectives of Aon with respect thereto. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not related only to historical or current facts. Generally, these forward looking statements often use the words such as "will", "may", "should", "continue", "believes", "expects", "intends", "anticipates" or similar expressions. These statements are based on the assumptions and assessments made by Benfield or Aon in light of their experience and their perception of historical trends, current conditions, future developments and other factors they believe appropriate. By their nature, forward looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and changes in circumstances. Undue reliance
 
should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and management's plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements.
 
There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those described in the forward looking statements are the ability to combine or reorganise successfully the businesses of the Aon and Benfield groups to the extent proposed and to realise expected synergies from that combination, future revenues may be lower than expected, costs of future acquisitions and business dealings may be higher than expected, changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions.
 
None of Aon, Bidco nor Benfield undertakes any obligation (except as required by the Listing Rules, the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the rules of the London Stock Exchange) to revise or update any forward looking statement contained in this announcement, regardless of whether that statement is affected as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Credit Suisse, which is authorised and regulated in the UK by the Financial Services Authority, is acting for Aon and will act for Bidco and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to anyone other than Aon and Bidco for providing the protections afforded to clients of Credit Suisse nor for providing advice in relation to the Acquisition or any other matters referred to herein. Neither Credit Suisse nor any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates owes or accepts any duty, liability or responsibility whatsoever (whether direct or indirect, whether in contract, in tort, under statute or otherwise) to any person who is not a client of Credit Suisse in connection with this announcement, any statement contained herein or otherwise.
 
Merrill Lynch is acting as financial adviser and corporate broker to Benfield and no one else in connection with the Acquisition and will not be responsible to anyone other than Benfield for providing the protections afforded to clients of Merrill Lynch nor for giving advice in relation to the Acquisition.
 
Certain definitions and terms used in this announcement are set out in Appendix 4.
 
 
The release, publication or distribution of this announcement in jurisdictions other than the United Kingdom may be restricted by law and, therefore, any persons who are subject to the laws of any jurisdiction other than the United Kingdom should inform themselves about, and observe, any applicable requirements. In particular the ability of Benfield Shareholders who are not resident in the United Kingdom to vote their Benfield Shares with respect to the Amalgamation at the Special General Meeting may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdiction in which they are located. This announcement has been prepared for the purposes of complying with English law and with regard to the Code, and the information disclosed may not be the same as that which would have been disclosed if this announcement had been prepared in accordance with the laws and regulations of any jurisdiction outside of England.
 
This announcement is not intended to, and does not constitute, or form part of, an offer to sell, purchase, exchange or subscribe for or a solicitation of an offer to sell, purchase or exchange any securities or a
solicitation of any vote or approval in any jurisdiction pursuant to the Acquisition or otherwise. This announcement does not constitute a prospectus or a prospectus equivalent document. The Acquisition will be made solely pursuant to the terms of the Shareholder Circular which will contain the full terms and conditions of the Acquisition, including details of how to vote in respect of the Amalgamation. Any decision in respect of, or other response to, the Acquisition should be made only on the basis of information contained in the Shareholders Circular. Benfield Shareholders are advised to read carefully the formal documentation in relation to the Acquisition once it has been despatched.
 
Copies of this announcement and any formal documentation relating to the Acquisition are not being, and must not be, directly or indirectly, mailed or otherwise forwarded, distributed or sent in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction and persons receiving such documents (including custodians, nominees and trustees) must not mail or otherwise forward, distribute or send it in or into or from any Restricted Jurisdiction. If the Acquisition is implemented by way of an offer (unless otherwise determined by Aon and permitted by applicable law and regulation), the offer may not be made directly or indirectly, in or into, or by the use of mails or any means or instrumentality (including, but not limited to, facsimile, e-mail or other electronic transmission, telex or telephone) of intestate or foreign commerce of, or of any facility of a national, state or other securities exchange of any Restricted Jurisdiction and the offer may not be capable of acceptance by any such use, means, instrumentality or facilities.
 
The Acquisition will be conditional upon the Amalgamation becoming effective by not later than the Long-Stop Effective Date.
 
The Amalgamation will be subject to the following conditions:
1
                 
 
approval of the Amalgamation Agreement by a majority in number, representing at least three-fourths in value, of the Benfield Shareholders present and voting, either in person or by proxy, at the Special General Meeting (or at any adjournment of such meeting);
1.1
             
 
all resolutions required to approve, implement and effect the Amalgamation, set out in the notice of the Special General Meeting being duly passed by the requisite majority at the Special General Meeting (or at any adjournment of such meeting);
1.2
             
the delivery to the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda of all documentation and consents required to implement the Amalgamation pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act; and
1.3
             
 
the issue by the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda of a certificate of amalgamation pursuant to the Bermuda Companies Act.
1.4
             
 
Aon and Benfield have agreed that the Acquisition will also be conditional upon the following matters and, accordingly, the necessary action to make the Acquisition effective will not be taken unless such conditions have been satisfied or waived (where capable of waiver) prior to the Acquisition Effective Date being sought:
2
                 
 
all necessary filings having been made and all applicable waiting periods (including any extensions thereof) under the United States Hart Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 (as amended) and the regulations made thereunder having expired, lapsed or been terminated as appropriate in each case in respect of the Acquisition (including, without limitation, to its implementation and financing) and the acquisition or the proposed acquisition of any shares or other securities in, or control of, Benfield by any member of the Wider Aon Group;
2.1
             
 
the Financial Services Authority giving notice in writing under section 184(1) of FSMA, in terms reasonably satisfactory to Aon, of its approval (or being treated as having given its approval by virtue of section 184(2) of FSMA) in respect of any acquisition of or increase in control over (as defined in section 179 and section 180 of FSMA) any member of the Wider Benfield Group which is a UK authorised person (as defined in section 178(4) of FSMA), which in either case would result from the Acquisition;
2.2
             
 
the Bermuda Monetary Authority confirming that it has no objection to any change in the shareholder controller of any member of the Benfield Group which is a registered person under the Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda which would result from the Acquisition.
2.3
             
 
all necessary notifications and filings having been made in connection with the Acquisition and all necessary waiting periods (including any extensions thereof) under any applicable legislation or regulation of any jurisdiction having expired, lapsed or been terminated (as appropriate) and all Authorisations necessary in any jurisdiction for or in respect of the Amalgamation and the Acquisition or the proposed acquisition of any shares or other securities in, or control of, Benfield by any member of the Wider Aon Group having been obtained in terms and in a form reasonably satisfactory to Aon from all appropriate Third Parties (as defined in paragraph 2.6 below) or (without prejudice to the
2.4
             
generality of the foregoing) from any person or bodies with whom any member of the Wider Benfield Group has entered into contractual arrangements, in each case where the absence of such Authorisation would have a material adverse effect on the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole, and all such Authorisations remaining in full force and effect at the time at which the Amalgamation becomes otherwise unconditional and there being no notice or intimation of an intention to revoke, suspend, restrict, modify or not to renew such Authorisations which in any such case would have material adverse effect on the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
 
no government or governmental, quasi-governmental, supranational, statutory, regulatory, environmental or investigative body (including, without limitation, any national or supranational antitrust or competition authority), court, trade agency, association, institution or any other person or body whatsoever in any jurisdiction (each a "Third Party") having decided to take or threatened in writing any action, proceeding, suit, investigation, enquiry or reference in relation to the Acquisition, or having taken or required any action to be taken (including, without limitation, proposing or enacting any statute, regulation, decision or order) in each case which is or is reasonably expected to be material in the context of the Amalgamation, which would or might reasonably be expected to:
2.5
             
 
make the Acquisition or its implementation or the acquisition or proposed acquisition of any shares or other securities in, or control of, Benfield by any member of the Wider Aon Group void, illegal and/or unenforceable under the laws of any jurisdiction, or otherwise prohibit or restrict the implementation of or impose additional conditions or obligations with respect to, or otherwise challenge or require amendment of the Amalgamation in any material respect or the acquisition of any such shares or securities by any member of the Wider Aon Group;
2.5.1
             
 
require the divestiture by any member of the Wider Aon Group or by any member of the Wider Benfield Group of all or any part of its businesses, assets, undertakings or property or impose any limitation on the ability of any of them to conduct their respective businesses (or any part thereof) or to own any of their assets or properties (or any part thereof) which in any such case would have material adverse effect on the Wider Aon Group or the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole (as the case may be);
2.5.2
             
 
impose any material limitation on or result in a delay in
2.5.3
             
the ability of any member of the Wider Aon Group directly or indirectly to acquire or hold or to exercise effectively all or any rights of ownership in respect of shares or other securities in Benfield or on the ability of any member of the Wider Benfield Group or any member of the Wider Aon Group directly or indirectly to hold or exercise effectively any rights of ownership in respect of shares or other securities (or the equivalent) in, or to exercise management control over, any member of the Wider Benfield Group;
 
require any member of the Wider Aon Group or the Wider Benfield Group to acquire or offer to acquire any shares or other securities (or the equivalent) or any asset owned by any third party (other than in the implementation of the Amalgamation);
2.5.4
             
 
require a divestiture by any member of the Wider Aon Group of any shares or other securities (or the equivalent) in Benfield;
2.5.5
             
 
result in any member of the Wider Benfield Group ceasing to be able to carry on business under any name under which it presently carries on business which in any such case would have a material adverse effect on the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.5.6
             
 
impose any limitation on the ability of any member of the Wider Aon Group or any member of the Wider Benfield Group to integrate or co-ordinate all or any part of its business with all or any part of the business of any other member of the Wider Aon Group and/or the Wider Benfield Group which in any such case would have a material adverse effect on the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole; or
2.5.7
             
 
otherwise affect the business, assets, profits or prospects of any member of the Wider Benfield Group or any member of the Wider Aon Group in a manner which is adverse to and material in the context of the Benfield Group taken as a whole or of the obligations of any members of the Aon Group taken as a whole in connection with the Acquisition;
2.5.8
             
 
and all applicable waiting and other time periods during which any such Third Party could decide to take, institute, implement or threaten any such action, proceeding, suit, investigation, enquiry or reference or take any other step under the laws of any jurisdiction in respect of the Amalgamation or the
2.6.9
             
acquisition or proposed acquisition of any Benfield Shares or otherwise intervene having expired, lapsed, or been terminated;
 
since 31 December 2007, except as disclosed in the Interim Results or as publicly announced to a Regulatory Information Service by or on behalf of Benfield or as fairly disclosed by Benfield to Aon before the date of this announcement, there being no material provision or any material arrangement, agreement, licence, permit, lease or other instrument to which any member of the Wider Benfield Group is a party or by or to which any such member or any of its assets is or may be bound or be subject which, as a consequence of the Acquisition or the proposed acquisition by any member of the Wider Aon Group of any shares or other securities in Benfield or because of a change in the control or management of any member of the Wider Benfield Group, would or might reasonably be expected to result in (to an extent that is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole):
2.6
             
 
any monies borrowed by, or any other indebtedness, actual or contingent, of any member of the Wider Benfield Group being or becoming repayable, or capable of being declared repayable, immediately or prior to its or their stated maturity date or repayment date, or the ability of any such member to borrow monies or incur any indebtedness being withdrawn or materially inhibited or being capable of becoming or being withdrawn or materially inhibited;
2.6.1
             
 
the rights, liabilities, obligations, interests or business of any member of the Wider Benfield Group or any member of the Wider Aon Group under any such arrangement, agreement, licence, permit, lease or instrument or the interests or business of any member of the Wider Benfield Group in or with any other firm or company or body or person (or any agreement or arrangement relating to any such business or interests) being terminated or adversely modified or affected or any onerous obligation or liability arising or any adverse action being taken thereunder;
2.6.2
             
 
any member of the Wider Benfield Group ceasing to be able to carry on business under any name under which it presently carries on business;
2.6.3
             
 
any assets or interests of any member of the Wider Benfield Group being disposed of or charged or any right arising under which any such asset or interest could be required to be disposed of or charged or could cease to be available to any member of the Wider Benfield Group otherwise than in the
2.6.4
             
ordinary course of business;
 
the creation or enforcement of any mortgage, charge or other security interest over the whole or any part of the business, property or assets of any member of the Wider Benfield Group otherwise than in the ordinary course of business;
2.6.5
             
 
the value of, or the financial or trading position of, any member of the Wider Benfield Group being prejudiced or adversely affected;
2.6.6
             
 
the creation of any liability (actual or contingent) by any member of the Wider Benfield Group; or
2.6.7
             
 
the creation of any liability of any member of the Wider Benfield Group to make any severance, termination, bonus or other payment to any directors or its officers (excluding discretionary bonuses for executive directors as determined by the Benfield remuneration committee or any other employees whose bonuses are determined by the remuneration committee);
2.6.8
             
 
except as disclosed in the Interim Results or as publicly announced to a Regulatory Information Service by or on behalf of Benfield or as fairly disclosed by Benfield to Aon before the date of this announcement, since 31 December 2007, no member of the Wider Benfield Group having:
2.7
             
 
issued or agreed to issue or authorised or proposed the issue of additional shares of any class, or securities or securities convertible into, or exchangeable for, or rights, warrants or options to subscribe for or acquire, any such shares or convertible securities (save, where relevant, as between Benfield and wholly owned subsidiaries of Benfield or between such wholly-owned subsidiaries and save for the issue of Benfield Shares pursuant to the Benfield Share Schemes and the issue or transfer from treasury of Benfield Shares upon the exercise of any options granted under any of the Benfield Share Schemes);
2.7.1
             
 
recommended, declared, paid or made or proposed to recommend, declare, pay or make any bonus, dividend or other distribution (whether payable in cash or otherwise) other than to Benfield or one of its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly-owned subsidiaries;
2.7.2
             
 
save for transactions between Benfield and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly owned subsidiaries, merged with (by statutory merger or otherwise) or demerged from
2.7.3
             
or acquired any body corporate, partnership or business or acquired or disposed of, or, other than in the ordinary course of business, transferred, mortgaged or charged or created any security interest over, any assets or any right, title or interest in any asset (including shares and trade investments) or authorised or announced any intention to do so, which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
 
save as between Benfield and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly owned subsidiaries, made, authorised, or announced an intention to propose any change in its loan capital;
2.7.4
             
 
issued or authorised the issue of any debentures or incurred or increased any indebtedness or become subject to any contingent liability (save in the ordinary course of business and/or save as between Benfield and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly owned subsidiaries) which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.5
             
 
entered into or varied or authorised or announced its intention to enter into or vary any contract, transaction, arrangement or commitment (whether in respect of capital expenditure or otherwise) which is of a long term, unusual or onerous nature, or which involves or is reasonably expected to involve an obligation of a nature or magnitude which is, in any such case, material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole or which is or is reasonably expected to be restrictive on the business of any member of the Benfield Group to an extent which is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.6
             
 
entered into or materially varied the terms of any service agreement with any director or senior executive of the Benfield Group (other than in the ordinary course of business or as otherwise disclosed to Aon prior to the date of this announcement);
2.7.7
             
 
agreed to provide or modified the terms of any share option scheme, incentive scheme, or other benefit relating to the employment or termination of employment of any employee of the Wider Benfield Group in a manner which is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.8
             
 
or, the trustees of the relevant pension scheme having,
2.7.9
             
made or agreed or consented to any significant change to the terms of the trust deeds or other documents constituting or governing the pension schemes in respect of which a member of the Wider Benfield Group may have liabilities or the benefits which accrue, or to the pensions which are payable, thereunder, or to the basis on which qualification for, or accrual or entitlement to, such benefits or pensions are calculated or determined or to the basis on which the liabilities (including pensions) of such pension schemes are funded or valued, or agreed or consented to any change to the trustees or trustee directors, or carried out any act which is reasonably expected to lead to the commencement of the winding up of the scheme or which is reasonably expected to give rise directly or indirectly to a liability arising out of the operation of the Pensions Act 1995 and/or the Pensions Act 2004 in relation to the scheme and no member of the Wider Benfield Group establishing or incurring liabilities in respect of any new pension arrangement, which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole ;
 
save for transactions between Benfield and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly owned subsidiaries, implemented or effected, or authorised or announced its intention to implement or effect, any composition, assignment, reconstruction, amalgamation, commitment, scheme or other transaction or arrangement (other than the Amalgamation) otherwise than in the ordinary course of business, which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.10
                 
 
purchased, redeemed or repaid or announced any proposal to purchase, redeem or repay any of its own shares or other securities or reduced or, save in respect of the matters mentioned in sub paragraph 2.7.1 above, made any other change to any part of its share capital to an extent which (other than in the case of Benfield) is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.11
                 
 
save for transactions between Benfield and its wholly owned subsidiaries or between such wholly owned subsidiaries, waived or compromised any claim otherwise than in the ordinary course of business which is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.12
                 
 
made any alteration to its memorandum or articles of
2.7.13
                 
association or other incorporation documents (save in relation to the Amalgamation) which is material in the context of the Acquisition;
 
(other than in respect of a member which is dormant and was solvent at the relevant time) taken or proposed any steps, corporate action or had any legal proceedings instituted against it in relation to its winding up (voluntary or otherwise), dissolution, reorganisation or for the appointment of any administrator, receiver, administrative receiver, trustee or similar officer of all or any of its assets or revenues or any analogous proceedings in any jurisdiction or appointed any analogous person in any jurisdiction or had any such person appointed, which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.7.14
                 
 
been unable, or admitted in writing that it is unable, to pay its debts or having stopped or suspended (or threatened to stop or suspend) payment of its debts generally or ceased or threatened to cease carrying on all or a substantial part of its business, which in any case is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole; or
2.7.15
                 
 
entered into any contract, commitment, agreement or arrangement otherwise than in the ordinary course of business (other than the Amalgamation) or passed any resolution or made any offer (which remains open for acceptance) with respect to or announced an intention to, or to propose to, effect any of the transactions, matters or events referred to in this condition;
2.7.16
                 
 
since 31 December 2007, and except as disclosed in the Interim Results or as publicly announced to a Regulatory Information Service by or on behalf of Benfield or as fairly disclosed by Benfield to Aon before the date of this announcement:
2.8
             
 
there having been no adverse change in the business, assets, financial or trading position or profits of any member of the Wider Benfield Group to an extent which is material to the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.8.1
                       
 
no litigation, arbitration proceedings, prosecution or other legal proceedings having been announced or instituted by or against or remaining outstanding against or in respect of any member of the Wider Benfield Group (whether as claimant or defendant or otherwise) and no enquiry or investigation by, or complaint or reference to, any Third Party against or in respect of
2.8.2
                       
any member of the Wider Benfield Group having been, announced or instituted against, or remaining outstanding in respect of, any member of the Wider Benfield Group which, in any such case, might reasonably be expected materially and adversely to affect the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
 
no contingent or other liability having arisen or become known to Aon which might reasonably be expected adversely to affect the business, assets, financial or trading position or profits of any member of the Wider Benfield Group to an extent which is material to the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole; and
2.8.3
                       
 
no steps having been taken and no omissions having been made which might reasonably be expected to result in the withdrawal, cancellation, termination or modification of any licence held by any member of the Wider Benfield Group, which is necessary for the proper carrying on of its business and the withdrawal, cancellation, termination or modification of which is reasonably expected adversely to affect the Wider Benfield Group to an extent which is material to the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole;
2.8.4
                       
 
since 31 December 2007, and except as disclosed in the Interim Results or as publicly announced to a Regulatory Information Service by or on behalf of Benfield or as fairly disclosed by Benfield to Aon before the date of this announcement, Aon not having discovered:
2.9
             
 
that any financial, business or other information concerning the Wider Benfield Group publicly disclosed which is material in the context of the Amalgamation is misleading, contains a misrepresentation of fact or omits to state a fact necessary to make that information not misleading and which was not subsequently corrected before the date of this announcement by disclosure either publicly or otherwise to any member of the Wider Aon Group to an extent that is material in the context of the Amalgamation or the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole; or
2.9.1
                       
 
that any member of the Wider Benfield Group is subject to any liability, contingent or otherwise, which is not disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts of Benfield or has not been publicly disclosed or disclosed in writing and which is material in the context of the Wider Benfield Group taken as a whole.
2.9.2
                       
 
Aon reserves the right to waive all or any of the above conditions, in whole or in part, except those in paragraph 1 above which are required
under applicable law.
 
The conditions in paragraph 2 above must be fulfilled, be determined by Aon to be or remain satisfied or (if capable of waiver) be waived by 11.59 pm on the date immediately preceding the Acquisition Effective Date, failing which the Acquisition will lapse. Aon shall be under no obligation to waive (if capable of waiver), to determine to be or remain satisfied or treat as fulfilled any of the conditions in paragraph 2 above by a date earlier than the date specified above, notwithstanding that the other conditions of the Acquisition may at such earlier date have been waived or fulfilled and that there are, at such earlier date, no circumstances indicating that any condition may not be capable of fulfilment.
 
The Acquisition will be on the terms and will be subject, inter alia, to Conditions 1 and 2 and those terms which will be set out in the Shareholder Circular and such further terms as may be required to comply with the Listing Rules and/or the provisions of the Code. The Acquisition and Amalgamation will be governed by Bermudian law and will be subject to the jurisdiction of the Courts of Bermuda.
 
Certain further terms of the Acquisition
3
                 
 
Aon reserves the right to elect to implement the acquisition of the entire issued and to be issued common share capital of Benfield by way of a takeover offer as an alternative to the Amalgamation. In such event, the takeover offer, unless otherwise agreed by Aon and Benfield, will be implemented on the same terms (subject to appropriate amendments), so far as applicable, as those which would apply to the Amalgamation. In particular, Condition 1 would not apply, however, the Offer would be subject to the following further condition:
 
"valid acceptances being received (and not, where permitted, withdrawn) by not later than 3.00 p.m. (London time) on the first closing date of the Offer (or such later time(s) and/or date(s) as Aon, may, subject to the rules of the Code, decide in respect of not less than 90 per cent. (or such lower percentage as Aon may decide) of the voting rights carried by the Benfield Shares to which the Offer relates, provided that this condition will not be satisfied unless Aon (together with its wholly owned subsidiaries, if any) shall have acquired or agreed to acquire (whether pursuant to the Offer or otherwise), directly or indirectly, Benfield Shares carrying in aggregate more than 50 per cent. of the voting rights then normally exercisable at a general meeting of Benfield."
 
For the purposes of this condition:
 
Benfield Shares which have been unconditionally allotted shall be deemed to
carry the voting rights they will carry upon issue;
 
Benfield Shares that cease to be held in treasury are Benfield Shares to which the Offer relates; and
 
Section 102 of the Bermuda Companies Act shall apply.
 
The availability of the Acquisition to persons not resident in the United Kingdom may be affected by the laws of the relevant jurisdictions. Persons who are not resident in the United Kingdom should inform themselves about and observe any applicable requirements.
 
Any Benfield Shares acquired under the Acquisition will be acquired free from all liens, equities, charges, encumbrances, rights of pre-emption and other third party interests and rights and together with all rights now and hereafter attaching thereto, including voting rights and the right to receive and retain in full all dividends and other distributions (if any) declared, made or paid on or after the date of this announcement.
 
The value attributed to the existing issued share capital of Benfield is based upon 210,717,667 Benfield Shares in issue as at 30 June 2008. The value attributed to the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield is based upon the aggregate of (i) that number of Benfield Shares in issue, (ii) an additional 15,350,503 Benfield Shares issuable on the exercise of share options and (iii) an additional 15,151,151 Benfield Shares issuable pursuant to the conversion of Benfield's outstanding Convertible Redeemable Preference Shares at a conversion price of 264 pence per share.
1.
                   
 
The financial information on Benfield is extracted (without material adjustment) from Benfield's annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 and from Benfield's unaudited preliminary results announcement for the six months ended 30 June 2008.
2.
                   
 
The financial information on Aon is extracted or provided (without material adjustment) from the audited consolidated financial statements of Aon Corporation for the year ended 31 December 2007 and from Aon's unaudited preliminary results announcement for the three months ended 30 June 2008.
3.
                   
 
All prices for Benfield Shares have been derived from the Daily Official List and represent the Closing Price on the relevant date.
4.
                   
 
The following directors of Benfield have given irrevocable undertakings as described in paragraph 9 of this announcement in respect of the number of Benfield Shares set out below:
 
 
In addition, the directors of Benfield have agreed that the undertaking to approve the Acquisition at the Special General Meeting will extend to shares issued to them before the Acquisition becomes effective on the exercise of options.
 
The following Benfield Shareholders who are not directors have given irrevocable undertakings as described in paragraph 9 of this announcement in respect of the number of Benfield Shares set out below:
 
 
 
The following definitions apply throughout this announcement unless the context requires otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
All references to time in this announcement are to London time unless otherwise stated.
 

Exhibit 2.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
is made on 22 August 2008.
THIS IMPLEMENTATION AGREEMENT
 
:
BETWEEN
 
a company incorporated under the laws of Bermuda with registered number 31639 and having its registered office at Clarendon House, 2 Church Street, Hamilton HM11, Bermuda (""); and
(1)
                         
BENFIELD GROUP LIMITED
Benfield
 
a company incorporated in Delaware and having its head office at Aon Center, 200 E. Randolph Street, Executive Offices, 3rd Floor, Chicago IL, 60601 ("").
(2)
                         
AON CORPORATION
Aon
 
:
WHEREAS
 
Benfield and Aon intend to announce and implement immediately following execution of this Agreement a proposal for the amalgamation of Benfield and a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aon which is to be incorporated as a Bermuda exempted company limited by shares ("") under the laws of Bermuda, following which the amalgamated company (the "") will continue as a Bermuda exempted company with the name of Benfield Group Limited.  Such amalgamation will be effected upon the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Amalgamation Agreement (as defined below) and in accordance with the Bermuda Companies Act.
(A)
                     
BidCo
Amalgamated Company
 
Aon has agreed to procure that BidCo enter into a Deed of Adherence in relation to this Agreement as provided herein and to enter into the Amalgamation Agreement.
(B)
                       
 
The board of directors of Benfield has:
(C)
                       
 
determined that the Amalgamation is advisable and in the commercial best interests of Benfield and its shareholders; and
(a)
                                    
 
approved this Agreement, the Amalgamation and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(b)
                                   
 
The board of directors of Aon has approved this Agreement, the Amalgamation and the other transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
(D)
                      
 
Aon reserves the right, as set out in this Agreement, (with the prior written consent of the Board, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to elect to implement the Acquisition by making a takeover offer for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield (the "") rather than by way of an amalgamation under the laws of Bermuda.
(E)
                        
Takeover Offer
 
The parties wish to enter into this Agreement to set out certain mutual commitments to implement the Amalgamation or, as the case may be, the Acquisition by way of Takeover Offer and certain matters relating to the conduct of the business of the Benfield Group pending the Acquisition Effective Date.
(F)
                        
as follows:
IT IS AGREED
 
1.
                              
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATION
 
In this Agreement (including the recitals), the following terms and expressions shall have the following meanings:
1.1
                        
 
means that date upon which (i) the Amalgamation becomes effective in accordance with its terms; or (ii) if Aon elects (with the prior written consent of the Board, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to implement the Acquisition by way of a Takeover Offer, the date that the Acquisition becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects;
Acquisition Effective Date
 
means the recommended acquisition of Benfield by Aon at 350 pence per Benfield Share to be effected means of the Amalgamation or, if Aon so elects (with the prior written consent of the Board), the Takeover Offer which shall include any Revised Acquisition, howsoever implemented;
Acquisition
 
has the meaning given in Recital (A);
Amalgamated Company
 
means the conditional agreement effecting the amalgamation of BidCo and Benfield under the Bermuda Companies Act;
Amalgamation Agreement
 
means the conditions set out in Appendix 1 to the Announcement;
Amalgamation Conditions
 
means: (i) the consideration payable by Aon in respect of the Benfield Shares (other than the Excluded Shares); and (ii) any cash consideration paid by Aon in respect of the cancellation of any options or awards granted under the Benfield Share Schemes; or such other amount as may be determined in accordance with paragraph 4.6 (anti-Dilution) or agreed under the terms of a Revised Acquisition in accordance with paragraph 9;
Amalgamation Consideration
 
means the amalgamation of Benfield and BidCo pursuant to the provisions of the Bermuda Companies Act on the terms of this Agreement and the Amalgamation Agreement;
Amalgamation
 
means the price per Benfield Share payable in respect of the Amalgamation, being 350 pence per Benfield Share;
Amalgamation Price
 
means 6:00 pm on the Business Day immediately prior to the Acquisition Effective Date;
Amalgamation Record Time
 
means the resolutions substantially in the form set out in Schedule 3 hereto (subject only to such amendments as Aon may request and the Board may approve prior to publication of the Circular) and in the notice of special general meeting which is set out in the Circular to be put to Benfield Shareholders at the Special General Meeting to approve the Amalgamation Agreement and matters related thereto;
Amalgamation Resolutions
 
means the draft announcement set out in Schedule 1;
Announcement
means Aon and its Group including from the date of its incorporation BidCo;
Aon Group
 
means a notice in writing from Benfield confirming that all the Regulatory Conditions, other than Conditions 1.3 and 1.4 have been satisfied and that having consulted with Aon, Benfield is not aware of any fact, matter or circumstance indicating that any of the Negative Conditions is not satisfied;
Benfield Confirmation Notice
 
means Benfield and its Group;
Benfield Group
 
means the Benfield 1998 Share Option Scheme, the Benfield 2002 Incentive Plan, the Benfield 2002 Incentive Plan for Californian Employees, the Benfield Performance Incentive Plan and the Benfield 2003 Performance Incentive Plan for Californian Employees;
Benfield Share Schemes
 
means holders of Benfield Shares from time to time (including such persons as hold an interest in Benfield Shares through Depositary Interests);
Benfield Shareholders
 
means the Common Shares and the Preference Shares in Benfield each of par value one penny;
Benfield Shares
 
means the Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (as amended);
Bermuda Companies Act
 
means the Insurance Act 1978 of Bermuda (as amended);
Bermuda Insurance Act
 
means the Bermuda Monetary Authority;
BMA
 
means the board of directors of Benfield from time to time;
Board
 
has the meaning given in paragraph 11;
Break Fee
 
means a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks in the City of London and Bermuda are generally open for business;
Business Day
 
means the bye-laws of Benfield from time to time;
Bye-laws
 
means the document to be addressed to Benfield Shareholders and containing a notice convening the Special General Meeting to consider and, if thought fit, pass the Amalgamation Resolutions;
Circular
 
means all consents, clearances, permissions and waivers as may be necessary or desirable (in the reasonable opinion of Aon and Benfield), and all filings and waiting periods as may be necessary or desirable (in the reasonable opinion of Aon and Benfield), from or under the laws, regulations or practices applied by any Relevant Authority in connection with the implementation of, in each case to the extent relevant, the Amalgamation or the Takeover Offer (including, but not limited to any such consents, clearances, permissions, waivers and all filings and waiting periods as are set out in the Conditions), and references to Clearances having been satisfied shall be construed as meaning that the foregoing have been obtained on terms reasonably satisfactory to Benfield and Aon or, where appropriate, made or expired;
Clearances
means the expert appointed by Benfield and Aon in accordance with paragraph 6.6 for the purpose of interpreting the Takeover Code in certain circumstances;
Code Expert
 
means the common shares of par value GBP0.01 each in the capital of Benfield;
Common Shares
 
means the Companies Act 1985 (as amended) of Great Britain;
Companies Act 1985
 
means any bona fide offer, business combination or similar transaction which is proposed by a third party which is not acting in concert (as defined in the Takeover Code) with BidCo or Aon to announce or implement an amalgamation, offer, scheme of arrangement, merger or business combination, acquisition or any similar transaction, the purpose of which is to enable that third party (or any other person) to acquire all or a significant proportion (being more than 25 per cent.) of the issued and to be issued share capital of Benfield or the whole or a significant part (being more than 25 per cent.) of its business and assets, or as the case may be any announcement thereof;
Competing Proposal
 
means(i) in relation to the Amalgamation the terms and conditions comprising the Amalgamation Conditions; or (ii) if the Acquisition is being implemented by way of the Takeover Offer the terms and conditions comprising the Takeover Offer Conditions;
Conditions
 
means the system for the paperless settlement of trades in securities and the holding of uncertificated securities operated by Euroclear UK & Ireland Limited in accordance with the CREST Regulations;
CREST
 
means the depositary interests representing Benfield Shares held through CREST established pursuant to the deed poll dated 12 June 2003 executed by Capita IRG Trustees Limited;
Depositary Interests
 
mean the directors of Benfield from time to time;
Directors
 
means a holder of Benfield Shares who does not vote in favour of the Amalgamation Resolutions and who makes an application to the Supreme Court of Bermuda pursuant to Section 106(6) of the Bermuda Companies Act;
Dissenting Shareholder
 
means the Benfield Shares that are held by Dissenting Shareholders;
Dissenting Shares
 
means 6:00pm on the Acquisition Effective Date;
Effective Time
 
means (a) any Benfield Shares that are owned by Aon, BidCo or any other direct or indirect subsidiary of Aon (not held on behalf of, or as security for obligations owed by, third parties) and (b) any Benfield Shares that are owned by Benfield or any direct or indirect subsidiary of Benfield (not held on behalf of, or as security for obligations owed by, third parties);
Excluded Shares
 
means the Financial Services Authority of the UK;
FSA
 
means the UK Financial Services and Markets Act 2000;
FSMA
means, in relation to any person, that person and any companies which are holding companies, subsidiaries or Subsidiary Undertakings of it or of any such holding company and shall mean any one of them;
Group
Group Company
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 736 of the Companies Act 1985;
holding company
 
means the non-executive directors of the Board;
Independent Committee
 
means the rules and regulations made by the FSA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority under the FSMA, and contained in the UK Listing Authority's publication of the same name;
Listing Rules 
 
means an alternative form of consideration payable by Aon in respect of the Benfield Shares (other than the Excluded Shares) whereby certain Benfield Shareholders (other than certain overseas Benfield Shareholders) may elect to receive Loan Notes instead of all or part of the consideration to which they would otherwise be entitled under the Acquisition, a summary of certain terms of which is set out in Schedule 5;
Loan Note Alternative
 
means the loan notes of Aon which may be issued pursuant to the Loan Note Alternative.
Loan Notes
 
means London Stock Exchange plc;
London Stock Exchange
 
means 5:00pm London time 180 days after the date of this Agreement or such later date as the parties may agree in writing;
Long Stop Effective Date
 
means each condition which is contained in paragraphs 2.5 to 2.7 (inclusive) of Appendix 1 to the Announcement;
Negative Condition
 
means, if following the date of this Agreement Aon elects to implement the Acquisition by way of the Takeover Offer in accordance with paragraph 4.8.1, the document which would be despatched to Benfield Shareholders and others by Aon (or such other entity as it may elect) containing, amongst other things, the Takeover Offer Conditions and certain information about Aon and Benfield and, where the context so admits, includes any form of acceptance, election, notice or other document required in connection with the Takeover Offer;
Offer Document
 
means the total consideration payable by Aon pursuant to the Acquisition calculated by reference to the price per Benfield Share offered pursuant to the Acquisition;
Offer Value
 
means the UK Panel on Takeovers and Mergers;
Panel
 
means each condition set out in paragraph 1 and paragraphs 2.1 to 2.4 (inclusive) of Appendix 1 of the Announcement;
Regulatory Conditions
 
or means a service approved by the London Stock Exchange for the distribution of announcements and included within the list maintained on the London Stock Exchange's website;
Regulatory Information Service
RIS
means any court, government department, national or supranational trade or regulatory body and any antitrust, competition or other similar agency, in each jurisdiction and including, without limitation, the BMA, the UK Listing Authority, the FSA and the European Commission or the UK Office of Fair Trading (as applicable);
Relevant Authority
 
means a revision to the Acquisition such that (a) the price in cash per Benfield Share offered to Benfield Shareholders under the Terms of the Acquisition, as so revised, is not less than the cash price per Benfield Share offered under the Competing Proposal and (b) the Terms of the Acquisition as so revised, are otherwise no less favourable to Benfield Shareholders than the terms of the Competing Proposal taking into account all circumstances.  Each reference in this Agreement to the "" shall be construed as a reference to any Revised Acquisition(s) (if made);
Revised Acquisition
Acquisition
 
means any individual employed or engaged by a member of the Benfield Group whose base salary or fees are equal to or exceed 250,000 per annum in respect of persons in the UK or $375,000 per annum in respect of persons in the USA.
Senior Employee
 
means the special general meeting of the shareholders of Benfield to be convened to consider and, if thought fit, to approve the Amalgamation Resolutions and any adjournment thereof;
Special General Meeting
 
shall have the meaning ascribed to it in section 258 of the Companies Act 1985;
Subsidiary Undertaking
 
means a Competing Proposal which the Directors acting reasonably, in good faith in compliance with their fiduciary duties and after consultation with their legal and financial advisers are minded to recommend;
Superior Proposal
 
means the UK City Code on Takeovers and Mergers as amended and in force from time to time;
Takeover Code
 
means the condition that the Takeover Offer be conditional on valid acceptances being received in respect of more than 90 per cent. in nominal value of the Benfield Shares (or such lower percentage as the Aon may specify in the Takeover Offer Announcement) to which the Takeover Offer relates and all of the Amalgamation Conditions other than Conditions 1.1 to 1.4;
Takeover Offer Conditions
 
has the meaning given to it in Recital (E);
Takeover Offer
 
means any government, state or municipality or any local, state, federal or other authority, body or official anywhere in the world exercising a fiscal, revenue, customs or excise function (including, without limitation, HM Revenue and Customs);
Tax Authority
 
means any form of taxation, levy, duty, charge, contribution, withholding or impost of whatever nature (including any related fine, penalty, surcharge or interest) imposed, collected or assessed by, or payable to, a Tax Authority;
Taxes
 
means (i) in relation to the implementation of the Acquisition by way of the Amalgamation, the indicative timetable for the Amalgamation as may be agreed between the parties; and (ii) in relation to the implementation of the Acquisition by way of the
Timetable
Takeover Offer, such indicative timetable as may be agreed in writing by Aon and Benfield (or as determined in accordance with paragraph 6) as soon as reasonably practicable following Aon making a valid election in accordance with paragraph 4.8.1;
 
means the FSA acting in its capacity as the competent authority for listing in the United Kingdom for the purposes of Part VI of FSMA; and
UK Listing Authority
 
means Benfield and the subsidiaries and Subsidiary Undertakings of Benfield and its associated undertakings (including any joint venture, partnership, firm or company in which any member of the Benfield Group is interested or any undertaking in which Benfield and such undertakings (aggregating their interests) have a substantial interest).
Wider Benfield Group
 
In this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires:
1.2
                        
 
references to a "" include any individual, firm, body corporate (wherever incorporated), government, state or agency of a state or any joint venture, association, partnership, works council or employee representative body (whether or not having separate legal personality);
1.2.1
                          
person
 
headings do not affect the interpretation of this Agreement, the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and references to one gender include all genders;
1.2.2
                          
 
references to any English legal term or concept shall, in respect of any jurisdiction other than England, be construed as references to the term or concept which most nearly corresponds to it in that jurisdiction;
1.2.3
                          
 
unless otherwise stated references to time are to London time;
1.2.4
                          
 
any references to "" refers to matters or documents "agreed" in writing; and
1.2.5
                          
agreed
 
any phrase introduced by the terms "", "", "" or any similar expression shall be construed as illustrative and shall not limit the sense of the words preceding those terms.
1.2.6
                          
including
include
in particular
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, any express reference to a statute, statutory provisions or an enactment (which includes any legislation in any jurisdiction) includes references to (i) that enactment as amended, consolidated or re-enacted by or under any other enactment before or after the date of this Agreement; (ii) any enactment which that enactment re-enacts (with or without modification); and (iii) any subordinate legislation (including regulations) made (before or after the date of this Agreement) under that enactment, as amended, consolidated or re-enacted as described in (i) or (ii) above.
1.3
                        
 
2.
                              
ANNOUNCEMENT AND CONDITIONS
 
The parties shall procure that the Announcement is made by releasing it to a Regulatory Information Service by no later than  22 August 2008 or by such other time or such other date as may be agreed between Aon and Benfield.
2.1
                        
The rights and obligations of the parties under paragraphs 3 to 11 (inclusive) of this Agreement are conditional upon the release of the Announcement pursuant to paragraph 2.1.
2.2
                        
 
If the Announcement is not released to a Regulatory Information Service before 7.00am on 23 August 2008 (or such other time as may be agreed between the parties), then this Agreement will terminate with immediate effect at that time.
2.3
                        
 
Aon and Benfield agree that the Acquisition is subject to the Amalgamation Conditions (or Takeover Offer Conditions, as the case may be).
2.4
                        
 
3.
                              
THE AMALGAMATION
 
3.1
                        
Completion
 
Subject to the satisfaction or waiver (to the extent possible and in accordance with the terms of paragraph 3.2.2) of the last of the Amalgamation Conditions on or before the Long Stop Effective Date, upon the terms set forth in this Agreement and the Amalgamation Agreement, and in accordance with the Bermuda Companies Act, BidCo and Benfield shall amalgamate at the Effective Time and the Amalgamated Company shall continue as a Bermuda exempted company as a result of the Amalgamation.
3.1.1
                          
 
If the Amalgamation Conditions have not all been satisfied or waived (to the extent possible) on or before the Long Stop Effective Date the Amalgamation shall not, notwithstanding the passing of the Amalgamation Resolutions, proceed and this Agreement shall terminate without prejudice to any accrued rights or obligations of either party.
3.1.2
                          
 
3.2
                        
Consummation of Amalgamation
 
Within ten Business Days of the date on which the last of the Amalgamation Conditions has been satisfied or waived (to the extent possible):
3.2.1
                          
 
Aon and BidCo will procure that, subject only to there being reasonable grounds for such officer to believe the statements set out in paragraphs (a) to (d) inclusive of Section 108(3) of the Bermuda Companies Act, an officer of BidCo executes a declaration for the purpose of Section 108(3) of the Bermuda Companies Act in the agreed form;
(a)
                    
 
Benfield will procure that, subject only to there being reasonable grounds for such officer to believe the statements set out in paragraphs (a) to (d) inclusive of Section 108(3) of the Bermuda Companies Act, an officer of Benfield executes a declaration for the purpose of Section 108(3) of the Bermuda Companies Act in the agreed form;
(b)
                   
 
subject to the execution of the declarations referred to in paragraphs 3.2.1 (a) and (b) above, the parties will cause the Amalgamation to be consummated by filing all documents required by Section 108 of the Bermuda Companies Act with the Bermuda Registrar of Companies in
(c)
                    
accordance with Section 108 of the Bermuda Companies Act such filing requesting the certificate of amalgamation be issued to become effective on the date which is the third Business Day after the date of filing subject to the Bermuda Registrar of Companies having issued the Certificate of Amalgamation by this date; and
 
subject to receipt of a certificate of amalgamation in respect of the Amalgamation from the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda pursuant to paragraph 3.2.1(c) above, the parties will as soon as reasonably practicable at or after the Effective Time release via an RIS announcement in agreed form relating to the consummation of the Amalgamation.
(d)
                   
 
Aon may, but is in no way obliged to, for itself and on behalf of BidCo by prior written notice to Benfield waive, in whole or in part, any of the Amalgamation Conditions save for the Amalgamation Conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2.1 to 2.4 of Appendix 1 to the Announcement.
3.2.2
                          
 
Prior to the issue of the Circular, Aon shall cause BidCo to be incorporated as a Bermuda exempted company limited by shares and shall deliver to Benfield certified copies of the certificate of incorporation, memorandum of association and by-laws of BidCo, the board resolution of BidCo approving the execution of the Deed of Adherence and the Amalgamation Agreement and the resolution of Aon as sole shareholder of BidCo, each in the agreed form approving the Amalgamation Agreement and the Amalgamation and matters relating thereto.
3.2.3
                          
 
4.
                              
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AMALGAMATION
 
4.1
                        
General Obligations to satisfy Amalgamation Conditions
 
Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each party undertakes to take (and, to the extent appropriate, each party undertakes to procure that the other members of its Group take) all reasonable steps to achieve fulfilment of the Amalgamation Conditions and the consummation of the Amalgamation on the terms and subject to the conditions of this Agreement and the Amalgamation Agreement in accordance with the Timetable with the intention that the Amalgamation is effected by no later than the Long Stop Effective Date.
4.1.1
                          
 
4.2
                        
General obligations relating to the Amalgamation
 
The parties will co-operate with a view to obtaining in a timely manner all necessary or desirable Relevant Authority Clearances in accordance with the Timetable in connection with the implementation of the Amalgamation including, without limitation (i) providing promptly such information as may be reasonably necessary or desirable for the purposes of obtaining the Relevant Authority Clearances or making or responding to any further requests for information as may be reasonably requested by a Relevant Authority; (ii) notifying the other party of any material communications with a Relevant Authority in connection with the satisfaction of the Amalgamation Conditions and the implementation of the Amalgamation; and (iii) if necessary negotiating
4.2.1
                          
with any Relevant Authority in relation to any Clearances required to facilitate and/or implement the Amalgamation.
 
Each party undertakes to keep the other informed reasonably promptly of developments which are material or potentially material to the obtaining of the Clearances by the Long Stop Effective Date, as set out in the Timetable or which are otherwise likely materially to affect the implementation of the Amalgamation.
4.2.2
                          
 
Save for existing obligations of confidentiality assumed by Benfield prior to the date of this Agreement, Benfield shall, and shall procure that each other member of the Benfield Group shall upon the request of Aon, provide such information, assistance and cooperation to Aon as Aon and its advisers may reasonably request to assist Aon and its advisers in assessing and investigating whether and how such member will be able to comply with the provisions of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 of the United States following the Acquisition Effective Date.
4.2.3
                          
 
To the extent that they have not been previously satisfied or waived, BidCo may at its discretion (but subject at all times to applying the principles which would be expected to be adopted by the Panel by reference to its past determinations of the ability of offerors to invoke the non-satisfaction of conditions in offers over which the Panel has jurisdiction) waive all remaining Amalgamation Conditions (other than the Amalgamation Conditions set out in paragraphs 1 and 2.1 to 2.4 (inclusive) of Appendix 1 to the Announcement) immediately before the Long Stop Effective Date or such earlier date as Aon and Benfield may agree as the Acquisition Effective Date.  If all of the Amalgamation Conditions have been satisfied or waived on or before the Long Stop Effective Date, Aon shall so confirm to Benfield within 2 Business Days of the satisfaction or waiver of the last such Amalgamation Condition.
4.2.4
                          
 
4.3
                        
The Circular and other documents
 
The terms of the Circular relating to the Amalgamation shall be as set forth in the Announcement, together with such terms required by law or regulation and such other Amalgamation terms or other modifications as the parties may agree in writing.  So far as practicable and in compliance with applicable law and the Bye-laws the Circular will be prepared in accordance with the Takeover Code as if the Takeover Code applied to the Amalgamation and will be prepared as far as applicable as a combined offer document and offeree board circular in accordance with Rules 24 and 25 of the Takeover Code.  In addition, the Circular will comply with the Bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act so as to implement the Amalgamation.
4.3.1
                          
 
Benfield may (but is not obliged to) not later than 14 days after the date of the Announcement approach Aon and request that the Loan Note Alternative is made pursuant to the Acquisition.
4.3.2
                          
Aon and Benfield shall in accordance with the Timetable jointly prepare a draft of the Circular (together with (i) such other circulars, forms, notices or announcements, as may be required by any Relevant Authority or any applicable laws or regulations; and (ii) such other documents as Aon and Benfield may otherwise agree) and take such steps as may be required to have the Circular (together with any other documents referred to above) approved by such Relevant Authority, or as appropriate.
4.3.3
                          
 
Each of Aon and Benfield undertakes to provide all reasonable assistance to the other in relation to the preparation of the Circular and other documentation referred to in paragraph 4.3.2, including (without limitation), access to, and ensuring the provision of reasonable assistance by its directors, officers and employees, each of their respective Group Companies, their directors, officers and employees and (so far as it has powers so to do) their respective auditors and advisers to assist the other party.
4.3.4
                          
 
Aon confirms to Benfield that all information which it provides for inclusion in the Circular which relates to Aon and BidCo will be, to the best of Aon's knowledge and belief (Aon agreeing to take all reasonable steps to ensure that such is the case), true and accurate in all respects and will not omit anything likely to affect the accuracy and relevance of such information.  Benfield confirms to Aon and BidCo that all information which it provides for inclusion in the Circular which relates to Benfield will be, to the best of Benfield's knowledge and belief (Benfield agreeing to take all reasonable steps to ensure that such is the case), true and accurate in all respects and will not omit anything likely to affect the accuracy and relevance of such information.
4.3.5
                          
 
In relation to the information in the Circular:
4.3.6
                          
 
Aon shall procure that the directors of Aon accept responsibility for the information in the Circular other than that relating to Benfield, the Benfield Directors and Benfield Group;
(a)
                  
 
BidCo shall procure that the directors of BidCo accept responsibility for the information in the Circular other than that relating to Benfield, the Benfield Directors and the Benfield Group; and
(b)
                 
 
Benfield shall procure that the directors of Benfield accept responsibility for the information in the Circular relating to Benfield and the Benfield Group.
(c)
                  
 
4.4
                        
Benfield's obligations in relation to the Amalgamation
 
Once approved (if required) in accordance with paragraph 4.3.2 and following approval of both Benfield and Aon of the final draft of the Circular, Benfield undertakes to post the Circular in a manner approved by the UK Listing Authority to the Benfield Shareholders as soon as practicable and in any event in accordance with the Timetable (or such later date as Benfield and Aon may agree in writing) to convene the Special General Meeting, such meeting to be
4.4.1
                          
held in accordance with the Bye-laws after the date of despatch of the Circular (or such later date as may be determined pursuant to paragraph 4.4.5 or as the parties may agree in writing from time to time) and thereafter in a timely manner to publish and/or post such other documents and information as may be reasonably required from time to time to be published and/or posted by Benfield (including without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provisions any document or information required under the Takeover Code (in so far as it applies)) in connection with the proper implementation of the Acquisition in accordance with the Timetable.
 
Benfield undertakes not to seek to amend the Amalgamation Resolutions to be proposed at the Special General Meeting, or allow the Acquisition to lapse or procure such withdrawal or lapse of the Acquisition after posting of the Circular without the prior written consent of Aon, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld.
4.4.2
                          
 
Benfield will convene and hold the Special General Meeting in accordance with the Bye-laws and the Bermuda Companies Act and submit the Amalgamation Agreement for approval by the Benfield Shareholders.
4.4.3
                          
 
Benfield will use its reasonable endeavours to ensure that the quorum requirements for the Special General Meeting are satisfied with respect to the Bermuda Companies Act and the Bye-laws.
4.4.4
                          
 
Benfield will, if necessary to implement the Acquisition and if so requested by Aon postpone or, with the consent of the majority of Benfield Shareholders present, adjourn and reconvene the Special General Meeting to a specific date and time announced at the meeting being adjourned, in accordance with Bye-laws 37 and 39 and convene any other necessary meeting of the Benfield Shareholders in connection with the Acquisition.
4.4.5
                          
 
Benfield undertakes that it will, prior to the Special General Meeting, keep Aon informed on a regular basis and as soon as practicable following a request from Aon, of the number of proxy votes received in respect of the proposed Amalgamation Resolutions including the voting intentions evidenced by these proxy forms and the identity of the relevant Benfield Shareholders.
4.4.6
                          
 
Benfield will make due and careful enquiry from time to time and in good time prior to the expected date of the satisfaction of Condition 1.3 as to all matters which might be material in the context of the satisfaction or waiver of the Negative Conditions and to make the substance of all such matters known to Aon as soon as reasonably possible, providing such details and further information as Aon may reasonably request.
4.4.7
                          
 
Benfield will provide Aon with a Benfield Confirmation Notice immediately prior to its satisfaction of Condition 1.3.
4.4.8
                          
 
Benfield will not allot or issue any Benfield Shares between 6.00pm on the Business Day before the proposed delivery date of the documents and consents
4.4.9
                          
required to implement the Amalgamation to the Registrar of Companies in Bermuda and the time at which the Amalgamation becomes effective in accordance with its terms.
 
If a supplemental circular or announcement is required to be published in connection with any variation or amendment to the Amalgamation ("") the parties will, as soon as reasonably practicable, provide such co-operation and information as the other may request to finalise and publish promptly such Supplemental Document.
4.4.10
                    
Supplemental Document
 
4.5
                        
Dissenters to the Amalgamation
 
Benfield shall give Aon (i) immediate notice upon it becoming aware of the existence of any Dissenting Shareholders, details of any applications made under Section 106(6) of the Bermuda Companies Act, copies of all pleadings and documents served in relation thereto and details of any attempted withdrawals of any such applications; and (ii) the opportunity to direct and conduct any and all negotiations and proceedings with respect to demands for appraisal under Section 106(6) of the Bermuda Companies Act at Aon's cost and provided that Benfield is indemnified by Aon to its reasonable satisfaction against all costs and expenses which may be incurred in relation to such negotiations and proceedings.
4.5.1
                          
 
Benfield shall not, except with the prior written consent of Aon (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed), voluntarily make any payment with respect to any applications under Section 106(6) of the Bermuda Companies Act, offer to settle or settle any such applications or approve any withdrawal of any such applications.
4.5.2
                          
 
Aon shall, as soon as is reasonably practicable after any decision made by the Bermuda Court pursuant to the appraisal process set out in paragraph 4.6.1, pay the amount of excess (if any) above the consideration paid to the relevant Dissenting Shareholders.
4.5.3
                          
 
4.6
                        
Adjustments to prevent Dilution
 
If, between the date of this Agreement and the Effective Time, the issued Benfield Shares shall have been changed into a different number of shares or a different class, in either case by reason of a share consolidation, reclassification, share dividend or distribution, recapitalisation, amalgamation, merger, subdivision, issuer tender or exchange offer, bonus issue or other similar transaction (such transactions not being in breach of Benfield's obligations under this Agreement), the aggregate Amalgamation Consideration will be equitably adjusted in such manner (if at all) as the parties may agree (or, in the absence of any agreement within a period of three Business Days of such event, in such manner as shall be certified by an independent firm of accountants nominated by the President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales on the application of any party, such firm to act as experts and not as arbitrators).
4.6.1
                          
 
4.7
                        
Benfield Share Schemes
 
The parties acknowledge and agree that under the current rules of the Benfield Share Schemes the outstanding options and awards under those schemes (such awards comprising deferred stock units) will vest and become exercisable (as the case may be) to the extent that they have not already vested and become exercisable if the Acquisition proceeds by way of a Takeover Offer and that:
4.7.1
                           
 
such options and awards will be subject to pro-rating for time and/or performance as set out in the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes; and
(a)
                  
 
no discretion contained in the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes will be used to vary or waive any requirement to pro-rate the options and awards for time and/or performance.
(b)
                 
 
In the event that the Acquisition is to be effected as an Amalgamation, the parties acknowledge and agree that the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes permitting vesting on a change of control of Benfield by way of a general offer apply but in order to enable participants in Benfield Share Schemes to acquire Benfield Shares under the Benfield Share Schemes before the Effective Time on the same basis as if the Acquisition were structured as a general offer by way of a Takeover Offer, Benfield shall make or procure the making of any necessary amendments (as agreed with Aon) to the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes to ensure that any outstanding options and awards under the Benfield Share Schemes vest and become exercisable in connection with the Amalgamation prior to the Amalgamation Record Time provided that:
4.7.2
                           
 
the options and awards will be subject to the existing time and/or performance pro-rating provisions contained in the rules of the relevant Benfield Share Scheme as would apply if the Acquisition were to proceed by way of a Takeover Offer; and
(a)
                  
 
no discretion contained in the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes as would apply if the Acquisition were to proceed by way of a Takeover Offer will be used to vary or waive any requirement to pro-rate the options and awards for time and/or performance in connection with the Amalgamation.
(b)
                 
 
Benfield acknowledges and agrees that the decision as to the treatment under the current rules of the Benfield Share Schemes of the outstanding options and awards under those schemes which have not vested and been exercised pursuant to the provisions in the Benfield Share Schemes referred to in paragraphs 4.7.1 and 4.7.2 above shall be made by Torch after the Acquisition Effective Date and Benfield shall not make a decision as to such treatment that is inconsistent with this.
4.7.3
                           
 
The parties agree to cooperate to put in place a cashless exercise facility to enable holders of options under the Benfield Share Schemes to exercise their options by giving an undertaking to pay the option exercise price and any income tax and social security (including employee and employer national
4.7.4
                           
 
insurance contributions) or other Taxes due on exercise with any such amounts being deducted from the cash proceeds due to such optionholders under the Acquisition.
 
Other than pursuant to a contractual obligation entered into prior to the date of this Agreement, Benfield shall not grant, and shall ensure that no other member of the Benfield Group shall grant, any new options or awards to subscribe for or purchase Benfield Shares or shares in any other member of the Benfield Group whether under the Benfield Share Schemes or otherwise on or after the date of this Agreement except with the prior written consent of Aon.
4.7.5
                           
 
The parties undertake to work together and to prepare, in a form to be agreed between Benfield and Aon, letters to each of the participants in the Benfield Share Schemes to inform them of the impact of the Acquisition and forms for each of the participants in the Benfield Share Schemes enabling the participants to exercise their options and awards, as appropriate, during such period as provided for under the rules of the Benfield Share Schemes (as they may be amended in accordance with paragraph 4.7.2 above).
4.7.6
                           
 
The parties agree to co-operate as far as reasonably practicable to ensure that the proposals to participants in the Benfield Share Schemes are formulated with a view (among other things) to maximising all available corporation tax relief under Schedule 23 of the United Kingdom Finance Act 2003.
4.7.7
                           
 
Benfield shall agree with Aon prior to the posting of the letters to participants in the Benfield Share Schemes referred to in paragraph 4.7.6 above how it shall recommend to the trustees of the Benfield employee trusts (the Benfield Employee Benefit Trust (1988), the Benfield Group 1998 Employee Benefit Trust and the trusts established by Greig Fester Limited) that they satisfy options and awards granted under the Benfield Share Schemes with the intention that all Benfield Shares held in such trusts shall be used to satisfy options and awards under the Benfield Share Schemes and that all cash and other assets held by such trusts shall be applied in the acquisition of Benfield Shares to be used to the extent possible in satisfaction of options and awards under the Benfield Share Schemes or in repaying any outstanding indebtedness to Benfield.
4.7.8
                           
 
The parties reserve the right to agree that any options or awards granted under the Benfield Share Schemes may be cash cancelled in which case the provisions of this paragraph 4.7 shall apply mutatis mutandis.
4.7.9
                           
 
To the extent any option or award under the Benfield Share Schemes is satisfied in cash, such a payment to a participant shall be made net of any income tax, social security (including national insurance contributions) and Taxes which are required to be withheld by any member of the Benfield Group or the Aon Group (other than, for the avoidance of doubt, any employer's national insurance contributions) in respect of such cash payment as provided in paragraph 4.7.11 below.  All such payments shall be in pounds sterling.
4.7.10
                     
 
Benfield shall, on or before the Acquisition Effective Date, provide Aon with a schedule showing:
4.7.11
                     
 
the name and address of each individual who has exercised an option or award under the Benfield Share Schemes since the date on which the Circular is posted;
(a)
                    
 
in respect of each option and award, the number of Benfield Shares over which the option has been exercised or the award has vested;
(b)
                   
 
the exercise price of each relevant option and award;
(c)
                    
 
the name and address of the employing company of the relevant individual within the Benfield Group; and
(d)
                   
 
the amount of income tax, social security (including national insurance contributions) or other Taxes due to be withheld by any member of the Benfield Group.
(e)
                    
 
If Aon (or its advisers) has any queries on the amount of income tax, social security (including national insurance contributions) or other Taxes due to be withheld by any member of the Benfield Group, it shall direct them in writing to Benfield within 10 Business Days of receipt of the schedule referred to in paragraph 4.7.11 who shall, on receipt of such written query and in the event of any continuing query or dispute, appoint a suitable professional firm of advisers to determine as soon as possible the amounts that are required to be withheld.
4.7.12
                     
 
If Benfield does not provide all such information to Aon before the Acquisition Effective Date (or in the event of a continuing query or dispute as to the amount of the Taxes to be withheld where there has at the Acquisition Effective Date been no determination by the advisers as referred to above):
4.7.13
                     
 
the amount of income tax and social security (including national insurance contributions) or other Taxes that shall be deducted from the payments to be made to any specific individual in respect of whom not all such information has been provided shall be treated as 48.68% of the payment in relation to those individuals employed by any United Kingdom employing company in the Benfield Group and 50% (or such other percentage as may be agreed between the parties) otherwise;
(a)
                    
 
any amounts so deducted to pay the Taxes shall be paid to the individual's employing company in the Benfield Group to forward to the relevant Tax authority; and
(b)
                   
 
in the event that the individual's employing company is not specified, any amounts so deducted to pay the Taxes shall be paid to Benfield as agent for the individual's employing company.
(c)
                    
 
The achievement of awards made under the Benfield Long Term Deferred Cash Award Rules shall be calculated in accordance with Appendix 2 of those rules 
4.7.14
                     
 
Benfield shall not grant, and shall ensure that no other member of the Benfield Group shall grant, any awards under the Benfield Long Term Deferred Cash Award Rules after the date of this Agreement except with the prior written consent of Aon.
and paragraph 4.7.2 shall apply to those rules in the event that the Acquisition is to be effected as an Amalgamation.  Other than pursuant to a contractual obligation entered into prior to the date of this Agreement,
 
4.8
                          
Switching to a different structure
 
Aon may elect, at any time (with the prior written consent of Benfield, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed) by delivering written notice to Benfield to that effect, to implement the Acquisition by way of the Takeover Offer, whether or not the Amalgamation Circular has been posted, provided that the Takeover Offer is implemented in accordance with the Takeover Offer Conditions and on terms that permit the implementation of the Acquisition by way of the Takeover Offer.
4.8.1
                           
 
Subject to Aon having elected to implement the Acquisition by way of Takeover Offer pursuant to paragraph 4.8.1, Benfield undertakes to provide Aon with all such information about the Benfield Group as may reasonably be required for inclusion in the Offer Document and to provide all such other assistance as may reasonably be required in connection with the preparation of the Offer Document and any other documentation required in connection with the Acquisition, including access to, and ensuring the provision of assistance by, relevant professional advisers, printers and registrars, in each case as soon as reasonably practicable upon request from Aon.
4.8.2
                           
 
Subject to Aon having elected to implement the Acquisition by way of Takeover Offer pursuant to paragraph 4.8.1, Aon agrees to consult with Benfield as to the form and content of the Offer Document and, to the extent that the Offer Document relates to the Benfield Group or its directors, Aon agrees that it will obtain Benfield's approval of the content of the Offer Document and afford Benfield sufficient time to consider such document.
4.8.3
                           
 
So far as practicable and in compliance with applicable law and the Bye-laws the Offer Document will be prepared in accordance with the Takeover Code.
4.8.4
                           
 
Subject to Aon having elected to implement the Acquisition by way of Takeover Offer pursuant to paragraph 4.8.1, Benfield agrees that the Offer Document shall incorporate an unqualified unanimous recommendation of the Benfield board of directors to Benfield Shareholders to accept the offer, except to the extent that the Benfield board of directors has determined in good faith that such recommendation should not be given or should be withdrawn or modified in compliance with the duties of the Benfield board.
4.8.5
                           
 
Benfield will procure that its directors accept responsibility for the information in the Offer Document relating to Benfield, the Benfield Group and its directors.
4.8.6
                           
 
4.9
                          
General
 
Each party to this Agreement undertakes to the others that it shall not exercise any rights under Section 106(6A)(b) of the Bermuda Companies Act to terminate the Amalgamation.
4.9.1
                           
 
5.
                                
INTENTIONALLY DELETED
 
6.
                                
APPLICATION OF THE TAKEOVER CODE
 
Subject to the terms of this paragraph 6, the parties agree and acknowledge that in accordance with the Bye-laws and to the full extent permitted by the Bermuda Companies Act and by Bermuda law, the provisions of the Takeover Code, including but not limited to the general principles set out therein (""), shall apply to the Acquisition (whether such Acquisition is effected by way of Amalgamation or by way of a Takeover Offer).
6.1
                          
General Principles
 
Benfield agrees to comply with the Takeover Code in relation to the Acquisition for so long as the Board determines that to do so is in the best interests of Benfield and shall notify Aon immediately if the Board resolves no longer to comply with the Takeover Code.
6.2
                          
 
Aon agrees to comply with the Takeover Code until the earliest to occur of the following:
6.3
                          
 
Benfield notifies BidCo that the Board no longer intends to recommend the Acquisition;
6.3.1
                           
 
the Board withdraws or adversely modifies its recommendation of the Acquisition;
6.3.2
                           
 
the Board resolves no longer to comply with the Takeover Code; and
6.3.3
                           
 
any other offeror for Benfield or any potential offeror which has made an approach to Benfield and which approach the Board has resolved to pursue does not enter into agreement with Benfield agreeing to comply with the Takeover Code within 2 Business Days after the date of the offer or the approach, as the case may be, and Benfield shall notify BidCo immediately if this occurs.
6.3.4
                           
 
The parties acknowledge that the Panel does not have jurisdiction over the Acquisition and agree that the Independent Committee shall have full delegated authority from the Board to determine the application and interpretation of the Takeover Code.  Such authority of the Independent Committee shall include all discretion vested in the Panel as if the whole or any part of the Takeover Code applied including, without limitation, the determination of conditions and consents, the Timetable, the determination of any other date or deadline by which Benfield and/or Aon are required to respond or act in relation to any matter pursuant to this Agreement, the determination of any dispute between affected persons in relation to the application of the Takeover Code and the resolution of competitive situations.
6.4
                          
 
Benfield shall procure that any determination of the Independent Committee in accordance with paragraph 6.4 shall be notified to Aon immediately following such determination and that any such determination shall be made by the Independent Committee in such time as reflects the urgency of the matter being determined.
6.5
                          
 
Prior to making any determination on any issue pursuant to paragraph 6.4, the Independent Committee shall notify Aon as to the proposed determination of such issue. Aon may dispute any such proposed determination by notice in writing to the Independent Committee stating that a dispute has arisen (a "") to be served no later than the second Business Day following such proposed determination. Following the service of a Dispute Notice, the parties shall use all reasonable endeavours to resolve the dispute which has given rise to the Dispute Notice as soon as practicable. If the parties fail to resolve the dispute which has given rise to the Dispute Notice within ten Business Days, Benfield and Aon shall jointly refer that dispute to an independent third party who has, in the opinion of Benfield and Aon acting reasonably, suitable experience and expertise in respect of the Takeover Code to determine that dispute (the "").  Either party may ask the President of the Law Society for the time being to appoint a Code Expert if Benfield and Aon are unable to agree the identity of the Code Expert within 5 Business Days.
6.6
                          
Dispute Notice
Code Expert
 
The decision of the Code Expert shall, in the absence of fraud or manifest error, be final and binding on Benfield, Aon and BidCo. In determining any dispute, the Code Expert shall act as an expert and not as an arbitrator.  Each of Benfield and Aon shall respectively provide or procure the provision to the Code Expert of all such information as the Code Expert shall reasonably require. The costs of the Expert shall be paid as determined by the Code Expert.
6.7
                          
 
7.
                                
RECOMMENDATION
 
Benfield agrees that, subject only to paragraph 7.2, the Circular shall incorporate a unanimous and unqualified recommendation from each of the members of the Board for the Benfield Shareholders to vote in favour of the Amalgamation Resolutions to be proposed at the Special General Meeting and/or to accept the Takeover Offer (as the case may be) as they shall do in relation to their own holdings of Benfield Shares.
7.1
                          
 
The Circular and Offer Document (as the case may be) shall not be required to incorporate a recommendation by the Board, and the Board shall be entitled to withdraw or modify any recommendation in the Circular and Offer Document (as the case may be) only if, and to the extent that, the Board acting reasonably, considers in good faith that to withdraw, modify or qualify the recommendation would be consistent with the Board's fiduciary duties to Benfield or to the Benfield Shareholders and would  not be a breach of the Bermuda Companies Act, the Bermuda Insurance Act or the Takeover Code (to the extent that it applies to the Acquisition pursuant to paragraph 6).
7.2
                          
 
If the Board, acting reasonably, considers in good faith that it would be consistent with the Board's fiduciary duties to (i) postpone the Special General Meeting after the Circular is sent to Benfield Shareholders but prior to the Special General Meeting taking place; or (ii) adjourn the Special General Meeting once commenced, to a specific date, place and time announced to the Benfield Shareholders at the Special General Meeting, Benfield
7.3
                          
 
shall not be obliged, to that extent, to proceed with the Special General Meeting at the original appointed time.
 
If Benfield exercises its rights under paragraph 7.2 or 7.3 it shall promptly inform Aon and shall provide Aon with a certified copy of the Board resolution evidencing the decision of the Board in relation to such matter.
7.4
                          
 
8.
                                
NON SOLICITATION
 
Until this Agreement terminates, Benfield undertakes:
8.1
                          
 
not to, directly or indirectly, solicit, encourage, initiate or otherwise seek to procure the submission of any proposal, indication of interest or offer of any kind regarding a Competing Proposal;
8.1.1
                           
 
to only provide confidential information relating to any member of the Benfield Group to a offeror or potential offeror as required by Rule 20.2 of the Takeover Code and only to the extent required by that Rule or pursuant to any obligation assumed by Benfield prior to the date of this Agreement;
8.1.2
                           
 
to procure that each member of the Benfield Group and its and their respective directors, officers, advisers, or employees complies with paragraphs 8.1.1 and 8.1.2,
8.1.3
                           
 
for the avoidance of doubt, provided that nothing in paragraph 8.1.1 shall prevent Benfield or any of the persons referred to in paragraph 8.1.3 from:
 
responding to (including discussing and/or facilitating consideration by its board of) any Competing Proposal where the Directors determine in good faith that the failure to do so would be in breach of their fiduciary duties; or
8.1.4
                           
 
continuing any discussions that commenced prior to the date of this Agreement with any third party relating to a Competing Proposal.
8.1.5
                           
 
9.
                                
MATCHING RIGHT
 
Benfield will not withdraw the Amalgamation or permit any recommendation to be withdrawn or modified for a period of 48 hours following the announcement of a Competing Proposal and during such period Benfield agrees and shall procure that the board of directors of Benfield will not recommend the Competing Proposal.
9.1
                          
 
Benfield agrees and shall procure that, if Aon communicates a Revised Acquisition to Benfield within the 48 hour period referred to in paragraph 9.1, the Board will provide an unqualified unanimous recommendation of the Revised Acquisition and shall make an announcement to this effect (or shall consent to the inclusion of a statement to this effect in any announcement of the Revised Acquisition by Aon).
9.2
                          
 
Following the passing of the Amalgamation Resolutions, the Board shall not seek to set aside the Amalgamation or entertain any other approach in relation to Benfield, even if such approach might give rise to a offer by a Superior Proposal unless and until this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its terms.
9.3
                          
 
10.
                          
CONDUCT PENDING COMPLETION OF THE AMALGAMATION
 
Pending the Acquisition Effective Date or earlier termination of this Agreement, and without prejudice to the provisions of the Bye-laws, Benfield shall and shall procure that each member of its Group shall:
10.1
                    
 
carry on its businesses in the ordinary course as conducted prior to the date hereof and, unless in accordance with the terms of existing arrangements entered into prior to the date of this Agreement or with the consent of Aon (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), shall not undertake any material commitment or enter into any material contract or acquire or dispose of any material assets, liabilities or businesses otherwise than in the ordinary course of business as conducted prior to the date hereof. For the purposes of this paragraph 10.1.1, a matter shall be "" if it exceeds 15 million;
10.1.1
                     
material
 
save for the interim dividend of not more than 4 pence (net) per Benfield Share in respect of the year ending 31 December 2008, and the dividend payable to holders of convertible redeemable preference shares in Benfield in accordance with their terms, not recommend, declare, pay or make or propose to recommend, declare, pay or make any bonus issue, dividend or other distribution whether payable in cash or otherwise;
10.1.2
                     
 
once the Circular has been circulated to the Benfield Shareholders, except as required by law or as agreed between Aon and Benfield, not make any amendment or addition to, or otherwise vary, the terms of the Circular without the prior written approval of Aon (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed);
10.1.3
                     
 
not (without the prior written consent of Aon, such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed):
10.1.4
                     
 
change the terms of employment (including the remuneration) of any of its Senior Employees in any way, or (save as disclosed in respect of cash transaction bonuses) make any ex-gratia payment to any such Senior Employee or director, other than in the ordinary course of business;
(a)
                    
 
terminate the employment of any of the Senior Employees other than in circumstances of gross misconduct;
(b)
                   
 
other than pursuant to an offer of employment made prior to the date of this Agreement, employ or engage any Senior Employee;
(c)
                    
 
adopt or amend any employee benefit, pension, bonus or profit sharing scheme (including without limitation any scheme having share purchase or share option provisions);
(d)
                   
 
except in respect of options and awards granted at the date of this Agreement under the Benfield Share Schemes and, save as contemplated pursuant to the Amalgamation, alter the authorised or allotted or issued share capital of Benfield, nor grant any options or other rights to subscribe
(e)
                    
 
for any shares under the Benfield Share Schemes nor reduce or capitalise any amount standing to the credit or any share capital, share premium account, capital redemption reserve or other reserve of any member of the Benfield Group; or
 
agree to do any of the above.
(f)
                    
 
11.
                          
BREAK FEE
 
Benfield undertakes to pay Aon an amount (exclusive of VAT, if any) equal to one per cent of the Offer Value (""), by way of compensation if the Announcement is made and after such announcement:
11.1
                    
Break Fee
 
the Directors (or any committee thereof) fail to recommend or withdraw, qualify or adversely modify for whatever reason the terms of their recommendation of the Amalgamation (other than as a result of a breach of this Agreement by Aon which is material in the context of the implementation of the Acquisition) or Benfield notifies Aon of its decision not to proceed with the Amalgamation and the Amalgamation subsequently lapses or is not made or is withdrawn;
11.1.1
                     
 
the Amalgamation subsequently lapses or is withdrawn or is not made and before this time a Superior Proposal is announced, and (although Benfield has not withdrawn its recommendation of the Amalgamation) that Superior Proposal subsequently becomes effective, becomes or is declared unconditional in all respects or is otherwise completed; or
11.1.2
                     
 
the Amalgamation does not become effective because Benfield does not comply with its obligations under paragraph 3.2 of this Agreement or Aon terminates this Agreement due to a material breach by Benfield of its obligations under paragraph 10.  For the purposes of this sub-paragraph 11.1.3, a breach shall be "" if (applying the principles which would be expected to be adopted by the Panel by reference to its past determinations of the ability of offerors to invoke the non-satisfaction of conditions in offers over which the Panel has jurisdiction) it either alone or together with other breaches of paragraph 10 has a material impact on the Wider Benfield Group.
11.1.3
                     
material
 
Benfield shall pay the Break Fee by not later than 5 Business Days after receipt of a demand by Aon following an event rendering the Break Fee payable pursuant to paragraph 11.1.
11.2
                    
 
All sums payable under this paragraph 11 shall be paid in the form of an electronic funds transfer for same day value to such bank as may be notified by Aon in writing to Benfield and shall be paid in full free from any deduction or withholding whatsoever (save only as may be required by law) and without regard to any lien, right of set-off, counterclaim or otherwise.
11.3
                    
 
The parties consider that the Break Fee is outside the scope of VAT.  However, in the event that HM Revenue & Customs determines that the Break Fee constitutes in whole or in part the consideration for a taxable supply for VAT purposes and Aon (or the representative member of any group of which Aon is treated as a member for VAT
11.4
                    
 
purposes) is liable to account to HM Revenue & Customs for VAT on that supply (such VAT being the ""), then Benfield shall pay Aon an amount in respect of the Relevant VAT in addition to (and at the same time as) the Break Fee, but the amount of the Break Fee payable by Benfield to Aon in such circumstances shall be where:
Relevant VAT
x
 
= BF / (1 + 0.175)
x
p
 
where:
 
is the VAT-exclusive amount of the Break Fee before taking into account the effect of this paragraph 11.4; and
BF
 
is the proportion of the Relevant VAT which Benfield is not entitled to recover (whether by way of credit or repayment) from the relevant Tax Authority, expressed as a decimal (so that, for example, where Benfield is entitled to recover a quarter of the Relevant VAT, shall be 0.75).
p
p
 
Benfield shall provide Aon with the value of p in the formula set out in paragraph 11.6 promptly following receipt of the demand by Aon referred to in paragraph 11.2.
11.5
                    
 
If, after any payment has been made in accordance with paragraph 11.6, it transpires that the value which has been taken into account as p in the formula set out in paragraph 11.6 is incorrect, the parties shall make such payments between themselves as will place them in the position they would have been in had the correct value of p been taken into account and, if appropriate, Aon shall issue a credit note for VAT purposes or an amended VAT invoice to Benfield.
11.6
                    
 
12.
                          
TERMINATION
 
This Agreement shall be terminated (and, subject to paragraph 12.2, all obligations of Aon, BidCo and Benfield under this Agreement shall cease) upon the earliest to occur of:
12.1
                    
 
an agreement in writing to terminate this Agreement between Aon, BidCo and Benfield at any time prior to the Acquisition Effective Date;
12.1.1
                     
 
(other than where Aon elects, in accordance with paragraph 4.9.1 to implement the Acquisition by way of the Takeover Offer within 7 days of the date of the Special General Meeting or any adjournment thereof) the Amalgamation not being sanctioned by the Benfield Shareholders at the Special General Meeting;
12.1.2
                     
 
the recommendation of the Amalgamation or Acquisition by the Directors in accordance with paragraph 7 being withdrawn;
12.1.3
                     
 
the Long Stop Effective Date;
12.1.4
                     
 
(other than where Aon elects, in accordance with paragraph 4.9.1 to implement the Acquisition by way of the Takeover Offer) the date on which the Amalgamation lapses, terminates in accordance with its terms, is withdrawn or otherwise ceases to be capable of becoming effective in accordance with the Bermuda Companies Act;
12.1.5
                     
 
if Aon elects, in accordance with paragraph 4.9.1 to implement the Acquisition by way of a Takeover Offer, the date on which the Takeover Offer lapses or is withdrawn; or
12.1.6
                     
 
the breach by Benfield of any of its obligations under paragraphs 7, 8 or 10 of this Agreement and in respect of paragraph 10, subject to the breach being "material" (as defined in paragraph 11.1.3).
12.1.7
                     
 
Termination of this Agreement shall be without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties which have arisen on or prior to termination including (without limitation) any claim in respect of a breach of this Agreement. Paragraphs 13, 14, 15, 17 and 18 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
12.2
                    
 
13.
                          
PROCUREMENT, GUARANTEE AND INDEMNITY
 
Until BidCo becomes a party to this Agreement, Aon will procure BidCo's due and punctual performance of each obligation of Bidco contained in this Agreement.
13.1
                    
 
Aon irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to Benfield the due and punctual performance of each obligation of Bidco contained in this Agreement.  Aon shall pay to Benfield (or the Benfield Shareholders) any sum of money which Bidco is at any time liable to pay to Benfield (or the Benfield Shareholders) under or pursuant to this Agreement and which has not been paid at the time the demand is made.  Aon's obligations under this paragraph 13 are primary obligations and not those of a mere surety.
13.2
                    
 
Aon irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to indemnify (and keep indemnified) Benfield on demand against any loss, liability or cost incurred by Benfield as a result of any obligation of Bidco referred to in paragraph 13.1 above being or becoming void, voidable or unenforceable as against Bidco for any reason whatsoever.  The amount of the loss, liability or cost shall be equal to the amount which Benfield would otherwise have been entitled to recover from  Bidco.
13.3
                    
 
Aon's obligations under paragraphs 13.1 and 13.2 are continuing obligations and are not satisfied, discharged or affected by an intermediate payment or settlement of account by, or a change in the constitution or control of, or merger or consolidation with any other person of, or the insolvency of, or bankruptcy, winding up or analogous proceedings relating to, Bidco.
13.4
                    
 
14.
                          
COSTS
 
Without prejudice to its other rights pursuant to this Agreement (or in relation to a breach by either party of the terms of this Agreement), each party shall pay its own costs and expenses incidental to the Acquisition.
 
15.
                          
ANNOUNCEMENTS
 
Subject to paragraph 2 and 15.2, except as may be otherwise agreed by Aon and Benfield, no announcement or statement shall be made regarding the Acquisition except on a joint basis or on terms agreed in advance by Aon and Benfield.
15.1
                    
 
The restriction in paragraph 15.1 shall not apply to any announcement or statement required by applicable law, regulation, court order, Relevant Authority or the rules of any stock exchange provided that the party required to make such an announcement or statement will, if practicable, consult with the other party as to the content and timing of such announcement or statement and the extent of the required disclosure.
15.2
                    
 
16.
                          
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
 
Without prejudice to the terms of a confidentiality agreement dated 19 August 2008 entered into between the parties (the ""), this Agreement and the Amalgamation Agreement constitutes the whole and only agreement between the parties relating to the Acquisition and supersedes any previous agreement whether written or oral between the parties in relation to the Acquisition provided that in the event of conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Confidentiality Agreement then this Agreement shall prevail.
16.1
                    
Confidentiality Agreement
 
Each party acknowledges that in entering into this Agreement it is not relying upon any pre-contractual statement that is not set out in this Agreement.
16.2
                    
 
Except in the case of fraud, no party shall have any right of action against any other party to this Agreement arising out of or in connection with any pre-contractual statement except to the extent that it is repeated in this Agreement.
16.3
                    
 
For the purposes of this paragraph, "" means any draft, agreement, undertaking, representation, warranty, promise, assurance or arrangement of any nature whatsoever, whether or not in writing, relating to the subject matter of this Agreement made or given by any person at any time prior to the date of this Agreement.
16.4
                    
pre-contractual statement
 
17.
                          
REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES AND UNDERTAKINGS
 
Aon and Benfield each warrant, represent and undertake to each other that:
17.1
                    
 
it has the right, power and authority, and has taken all action necessary and does not require the consent of any third party, to (a) execute and exercise its rights, and perform its obligations, under this Agreement and (b) to make the Announcement;
17.1.1
                     
 
its obligations under this Agreement are enforceable against it in accordance with the terms of this Agreement; and
17.1.2
                     
 
the execution of this Agreement, and the exercise of its rights and the performance of its obligations hereunder will not constitute (a) a breach of its constitutional documents, (b) a breach of or a default under any agreement to which it is a party (other than a breach or default which would not affect the ability of that party to comply with its obligations under this Agreement) or (c) a breach of or default under any order, judgment or decree of any court or governmental authority by which it is bound.
17.1.3
                     
 
Each of the parties confirms in favour of the other that it is not aware at the date hereof of anything that would or is reasonably likely to prevent:
17.2
                    
 
any of the Conditions being satisfied to an extent which is material in the context of the Acquisition; or
17.2.1
                     
 
it from acting in accordance with the Announcement or its obligations under this Agreement.
17.2.2
                     
 
18.
                          
MISCELLANEOUS
 
Notices under this Agreement shall be given in writing by personal delivery, recorded delivery mail, courier or by facsimile transmission, with a confirmation copy despatched by personal delivery or recorded delivery mail, and shall be effective when received.  Notices shall be given as follows:
18.1
                    
 
if to Benfield:
18.1.1
                     
 
Derek Walsh, General Counsel Fax:  +44 (0)207 578 7001
 
if to BidCo or to Aon:
18.1.2
                     
 
Richard E. Barry, Deputy General Counsel Fax: +1 312 381 6165
 
Any notice given under this Agreement shall, in the absence of earlier receipt, be deemed to have been duly given as follows:
18.2
                    
 
if delivered personally, on delivery;
18.2.1
                     
 
if sent by facsimile, when sent (with receipt confirmed); and
18.2.2
                     
 
if sent by recorded delivery mail or courier, on delivery.
18.2.3
                     
 
The provisions of this Agreement may be modified or amended only by written agreement between Aon, Benfield and following the execution by BidCo of the Deed of Adherence by Aon, Benfield and BidCo.
18.3
                    
 
None of the parties to this Agreement may (or purport to) assign, transfer, charge or otherwise deal with all or any of its rights under this agreement nor grant, declare, create or dispose of any right or interest in it without the prior written consent of the other parties.
18.4
                    
 
Save as provided in paragraph 4.5.3, a person who is not a party to this Agreement shall have no right under the Contracts (Rights of Third Parties) Act 1999 to enforce any of its terms.
18.5
                    
 
If any provision of this Agreement shall be held to be illegal or unenforceable, in whole or in part, under any enactment or rule of law, but would be valid and enforceable if deleted in whole or in part or reduced in application, such provision shall apply with such deletion or modification as may be necessary to make it valid and enforceable but the enforceability of the remainder of this Agreement shall not be affected.
18.6
                    
 
Except as otherwise expressly provided, time is of the essence of this Agreement.
18.7
                    
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties to it on separate counterparts, each of which is an original but all of which together constitute one and the same instrument.
18.8
                    
 
This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with English law and the parties submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts.
18.9
                    
 
F this Agreement has been entered into on the date stated on page 1.
IN WITNESS WHEREO
 
SCHEDULE 1 FORM OF ANNOUNCEMENT
 
28
 
SCHEDULE 2 INTENTIONALLY DELETED
 
29
 
SCHEDULE 3 FORM OF SGM RESOLUTIONS
 
BENFIELD GROUP LIMITED
 
(the Company'')
 
NOTICE OF SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING
 
OF SHAREHOLDERS
 
TO BE HELD ON [   ]
 
that a Special General Meeting of members of the Company will be held at [ADDRESS] Bermuda on [DATE] at [TIME] for the following purposes:
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN
 
to consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolution:
1.
                                
 
] of the document of which this notice forms part) in the form produced to the meeting and initialled by the chairman for the purpose of identification be and is hereby approved subject to any modifications, additions or conditions (in each case, not being material or, if material, not having any adverse effect on the interests of Benfield Shareholders) which may be agreed by the directors of the Company with Aon
THAT the Amalgamation Agreement (as defined in Part [
 
and
 
to conduct any other business that may properly be conducted at the Special General Meeting
2.
                                
 
30
 
 
Notes
 
A copy of the Amalgamation Agreement is appended to this Notice at [].
1.
                                
 
The fair value of the Benfield Shares as at [] 2008 (as determined by the board of directors of the Company on [] 2008, being the latest date practicable prior to the posting of this document) is []per Common Share.  The fair value of the BidCo Shares as determined by the board of directors of BidCo is [] per share.  Any shareholder who is not satisfied that he has been offered fair value for his shares and who does not vote in favour of the Amalgamation may, within one month of the giving of this notice, apply to the Supreme Court of Bermuda to appraise the fair value of his Benfield Shares.
2.
                                
 
Every member entitled to attend and vote at the Special General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more persons as his proxy to attend and vote in his stead. A form of proxy is enclosed for this purpose. A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
3.
                                
 
The completed form of proxy, together with any power of attorney or other written authority under which the form of proxy is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or written authority, must be received by the registrars [] of [] by [] a.m. GMT on [] 2008. Completion and return of a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Special General Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, in person if he wishes to do so.
4.
                                
 
The board of directors of the Company specifies that entitlement to attend and vote at the Special General Meeting or any adjournment thereof, and the number of votes which may be cast thereat, will be determined by reference to the register of members of the Company at [] on [] 2008. Changes to the register of members after such time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Special General Meeting.
5.
                                
 
31
 
BENFIELD GROUP LIMITED
 
(the "")
Company
 
FORM OF PROXY FOR A SPECIAL GENERAL MEETING
 
I/We:
 
of:
 
being a member of the Company hereby appoint
 
] and at any adjournment thereof.
or failing him the chairman of the meeting as our proxy to attend and to vote on our behalf at the Special General Meeting to be held on [
 
We desire our votes to be cast on the resolutions set out in the notice convening the Special General Meeting as indicated below:
 
 
 
For and on behalf of
 
 
 
32
 
Notes:
 
] of [] by [] a.m. GMT on [] 2008. Completion and return of a form of proxy will not prevent a member from attending and voting at the Special General Meeting, or any adjournment thereof, in person if he wishes to do so.
The completed form of proxy, together with any power of attorney or other written authority under which the form of proxy is executed or a notarially certified copy of such power or written authority, must be received by the registrars [
 
In the case of a corporation, this form of proxy must be signed either under the common seal or under the hand of some officer duly authorised in writing in that behalf.
 
If the proxy is not instructed how to vote, the proxy can vote or abstain as he or she thinks fit on the resolution.  This form confers authority on the proxy to demand or join in demanding a poll and to vote or abstain as he or she thinks fit on any other business which comes before the meeting (including any motion to amend a resolution or to adjourn the meeting).
 
33
 
SCHEDULE 4 DEED OF ADHERENCE
 
is made on              by Bidco (the Covenantor")
THIS DEED OF ADHERENCE
 
WHEREAS:
 
This deed is supplemental to an Implementation Agreement dated [] 2008 between Benfield Ltd and [] ("") relating to the proposed amalgamation of Benfield Ltd and the Covenantor (the "").
(A)
                       
Aon
Agreement
 
The Covenantor agrees to be bound by the terms, conditions and provisions of the Agreement and agrees to execute this Deed of Adherence.
(B)
                         
 
as follows:
THIS DEED WITNESSES
 
1.
                                
ADHERENCE
 
The Covenantor hereby confirms that it has been supplied with a copy of the Agreement and hereby covenants with Benfield Ltd and Aon (the "") to be bound by and adhere to the terms, conditions and provisions of the Agreement which are capable of applying to the Covenantor as if the Covenantor were an original signatory to the Agreement.
Covenantees
 
2.
                                
LAW
 
] as its agent for service of all process in any proceedings in respect of the Agreement.
This Deed of Adherence is governed by, and shall be construed in accordance with, English law and the Covenantor hereby submits irrevocably to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the English Courts (but accepts that this Deed of Adherence may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction) and hereby appoints [
 
whereof the Covenantor has executed this Deed of Adherence, which is intended to be and is delivered as a deed on the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS
 
 
34
 
SCHEDULE 5 LOAN NOTE ALTERNATIVE
 
 
35
 
 
36

Exhibit 99.1
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
For Immediate Release
NOTE TO EDITORS: Conference call for newswires today, Friday, August 22, 2008, at 8:15 a.m. (London).
 
 
CHICAGO and LONDON, August 22, 2008  Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) and Benfield Group Limited (LSE: BFD) announced today that the boards of directors of both companies have unanimously approved a definitive agreement under which Aon will acquire Benfield for 3.50 ($6.55) per share in cash and assume 91 million ($170 million) of Benfield net debt, representing an enterprise value of approximately 935 million ($1.75 billion) on a fully diluted basis.  The consideration represents a 29 percent premium to Benfield's closing stock price on August 21, 2008, the last trading day prior to the announcement of the agreement.
 
an unparalleled reinsurance franchise with global reach, diverse product capability and world class colleagues to effectively serve clients' evolving needs.  Following the close of the transaction, Aon intends to integrate the Benfield business with its existing reinsurance operations (Aon Re Global) and operate the division globally under the newly created Aon Benfield Re brand.
Benfield is a leading independent reinsurance intermediary in terms of reputation and standing.  The Benfield business is renowned in the industry for its excellent client service, leading analytics capability and record of innovation.  Aon believes that, as part of Aon Re Global, Benfield can continue to build upon these strengths, creating
 
Greg Case, president and chief executive officer of Aon Corporation.  "Over the past several years, we have made significant progress in strengthening Aon's operational platform and global network, becoming a more client-focused organization with a broader portfolio of innovative products and services.  With Aon Benfield Re, we will build on this progress to further enhance organic growth, expand margins, and drive shareholder value."
"This agreement reflects our ongoing efforts to ensure that Aon's colleagues, capabilities and technology remain at the forefront of our industry and that we provide the best value for our clients," said
 
Mr. Case continued, "Aon and Benfield share a common focus on excellence in client service, and both recognize the importance of being the destination of choice for the best talent in our industry.  The strong cultural fit between our firms will enable us to quickly realize the benefits of this transaction, and the value added for our clients and shareholders, in a seamless fashion following the close of our transaction."
 
Grahame Chilton, chief executive officer of Benfield, commented, "We are excited by this unique opportunity to create a powerful global franchise capable of expanding and redefining innovative reinsurance and capital market solutions.  At the same time, the Benfield board believes that the offer provides Benfield's shareholders with fair and certain value.  We look forward to joining the Aon team and working with them as Aon Benfield Re to expand our joint expertise and local reach to customers around the world."
 
 
Grahame, Andrew and our colleagues and team members as we combine the strengths of our two organizations into the leading reinsurance and capital management advisor in the world."
"I have significant respect and admiration for the Benfield organization," noted Michael O'Halleran, executive chairman of Aon Re Global.  "I look forward to working with
 
Andrew Appel, chief executive officer of Aon Re Global, added, "The combination of our two firms will create an unparalleled set of capabilities to deliver distinctive client value, drive innovation in analytics and capital management, and enhance the value proposition for colleagues and team members in both businesses."
 
Benefits of the Transaction
 
Aon's and Benfield's reinsurance operations are highly complementary.  Through the transaction, Benfield will add significantly to capabilities in:
 
                 
Developing markets around the world that both firms have targeted for growth
, including Asia, Central and Eastern Europe, Africa and Latin America.  Benfield's reputation for its long-standing client relationships in Japan and other Asian markets, in particular, is extremely strong;
 
                 
Global analytics, modelling and client facing technology
, which have enabled Benfield to differentiate itself in the marketplace, as demonstrated by its achievement of significant market share as well as the receipt of numerous industry awards, including 12 awards received in 2007 and 2008 alone;
 
                 
The U.S. Florida and South East property-catastrophe markets
, where Benfield's pioneering ReMetrics capability, together with its long-standing market experience, deliver to clients a uniquely attractive risk analysis proposition;
 
                 
Key major accounts.
  On a pro forma basis, Aon Benfield Re will serve the majority of insurance and reinsurance carriers globally.  Aon expects the new and expanded client relationships afforded by the combination to support continued growth;
 
  The transaction is expected to generate approximately 65 million ($122 million) in annual cost savings fully phased-in in 2011, primarily from shared administrative and support services across both Aon Re Global and Benfield;
                 
Cost savings and operational efficiencies.
 
Aon expects strong operating cash flows following the transaction to continue to support the Company's capital allocation priorities including, among others, its share repurchase program.  As of August 7, 2008, Aon has repurchased 89.8 million of its shares for $3.7 billion and had approximately $900 million remaining under its share repurchase authorization.  Aon plans to complete the remaining share buyback by year-end 2009.
                 
Strong operating cash flows. 
 
The return on invested capital (ROIC) on the acquisition is 13.8 percent compared to 12 percent on the share repurchase program.
 
 
Transaction Summary
 
The transaction is expected to close by the end of 2008, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory approvals as well as approval by Benfield shareholders.  Aon has received commitments from Benfield shareholders representing approximately 25.4 percent of Benfield's outstanding shares to vote their shares in favor of the transaction.
 
Aon intends to fund the transaction through cash on hand.  The transaction is not subject to a financing contingency.
 
Aon expects the acquisition to be accretive to earnings per share in the first year after closing, excluding one-time items, and meaningfully accretive thereafter.
 
Grahame Chilton, chief executive officer of Benfield, will serve as vice chairman of Aon Group, reporting to Greg Case, chief executive officer, Aon Corporation.  Mr. Chilton will join the Aon Corporation executive committee and the Aon Benfield Re executive committee.  Michael O'Halleran and Andrew Appel will serve as executive chairman and chief executive officer, respectively, of Aon Benfield Re.  Mr. Appel will continue to serve as chairman, Aon Consulting Worldwide.
Following the close of the transaction,
 
Exchange Rate
 
GBP/USD: 1.87.
 
Advisors
 
Credit Suisse acted as financial advisor to Aon, and Clifford Chance LLP is serving as legal counsel.  Merrill Lynch acted as financial advisor to Benfield, and Debevoise & Plimpton LLP is serving as legal counsel.
 
Newswire Conference Call
 
Aon and Benfield will host a conference call for newswires today, Friday, August 22, 2008, at 8:15 a.m. (London), 3:15 a.m. (New York), 2:15 a.m. (Chicago).  Journalists can join the conference call by dialing 08452450224 (within the UK) or + 44 ( 0 ) 1452542309 (outside of the UK), passcode 151159 followed by #.
 
Analyst and Investor Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
(888) 423-3275 (within the U.S.) or +1- (612) 332-0820 (outside of the U.S), or via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com and www.benfieldgroup.com.
Aon and Benfield will host a conference call today, Friday, August 22, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. (New York), 7:30 a.m. (Chicago), 1:30 p.m. (London).  Interested parties can listen to the conference call by dialing +1-
 
Presentation slides that provide an overview of the transaction will be made available at both www.aon.com and www.benfieldgroup.com approximately one hour prior to the start of the conference call.
 
A replay of the conference call will be available through September 5, 2008, and can be accessed by dialing +1- (800) 475-6701 (within the U.S.) or (320) 365-3844 (outside of the U.S.), access code: 958397.  The replay will also be available at www.aon.com and www.benfieldgroup.com.
 
 
About Benfield
 
Benfield is the world's leading specialist reinsurance and risk intermediary.  Its customers include many of the world's major insurance and reinsurance companies as well as government entities and global corporations.  Benfield operates from more than 50 locations worldwide.  Benfield is listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol BFD. For more information on Benfield, please log onto http://www.benfieldgroup.com.
 
About Aon
 
Aon Corporation is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, human capital and management consulting.  Through its 36,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon readily delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions.  Our industry-leading global resources, technical expertise and industry knowledge are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries.  Aon was named the world's best broker by magazine's 2008 Insurance Survey.  In 2008, Aon ranked highest on the ranking of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues.  Aon also was ranked by A.M. Best as the number one global insurance brokerage in 2007 and 2008 based on brokerage revenues, and voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary, and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007 and 2008 by the readers of   For more information on Aon, log onto http://www.aon.com.
Euromoney
Business Insurance
Business Insurance.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, and the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies. Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Contacts:
 


