FILE:AON/AON-8K-20090501064320.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
                                   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                                   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                                   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
On May 1, 2009, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2009.
 
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News from Aon
 
-  
Total Revenue was $1.9 billion with Organic Growth of 1%
 
-   EPS from Continuing Operations increased 45% to $0.80 from $0.55
 
First Quarter Highlights
 
                 
EPS from continuing operations, excluding certain items, increased 9% to $0.76
 
                 
Brokerage revenue was $1.6 billion with organic growth of 1%
 
                 
Brokerage pretax margin was 21.2% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 100 basis points to 20.7%
 
                 
Consulting revenue was $309 million with organic growth of 2%
 
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 22.7% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, decreased 240 basis points to 16.8%
 
                 
Named World's Best Broker by
Euromoney
Magazine 2009 Insurance Survey
 
CHICAGO, IL  May 1, 2009
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
 
Net income
attributable to Aon stockholders increased 28% to $280 million or $0.97 per share, compared to $218 million or $0.68 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations increased 30% to $230 million or $0.80 per share, compared to $177 million or $0.55 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, increased 9% to $0.76 compared to $0.70 for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted first quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures on page 10 of this press release.
 
"Our first quarter results reflect continued progress in the face of soft market conditions and a very challenging economic environment.  Organic revenue was one percent, adjusted pretax margin in Brokerage increased 100 basis points and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased nine percent," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer, Aon Corporation.  "Despite these challenges, we continue to strengthen the underlying foundation of Aon and invest heavily in the fundamental client-serving capabilities of our firm through the merger with Benfield and the introduction of both Client Promise' and our Global Risk Insight Platform in Brokerage.  Additionally, the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are on-track and just beginning to deliver cost savings while our balance sheet provides significant financial flexibility to effectively allocate capital and deliver long-term shareholder value."
 
 
FIRST QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
Total
decreased 3% to $1.9 billion due to a 10% decline from foreign currency translation and a 44% decline in investment income, partially offset by a 7% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions and organic revenue growth in commissions and fees of 1%.
revenue
 
Total operating expenses
decreased 9% or $147 million to $1.5 billion, including a $176 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and an $83 million gain related to the U.S. pension curtailment, partially offset by the inclusion of operating expenses from the recent Benfield merger and a $13 million increase in pension expense.
 
Restructuring expense
was $43 million in the first quarter compared to $60 million in the prior year quarter. 
An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment and type for both the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are detailed on page 11 of this release.
 
Restructuring savings
in the first quarter related to the 2007 restructuring program are estimated at $41 million compared to no material savings in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the first quarter, $36 million were related to the Brokerage segment primarily for workforce reduction.  The 2007 restructuring program is currently expected to deliver cumulative run-rate cost savings of approximately $240-265 million in 2009 and $370 million in 2010.
 
Restructuring savings in the first quarter related to the Aon Benfield restructuring program are estimated at $4 million.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the Benfield restructuring program is currently expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of $33-41 million in 2009, $84-94 million in 2010 and $122 million in 2011.
 
Foreign currency
translation decreased net income by $0.02 per share compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against most major currencies.  Excluding certain items highlighted on page 10 of this press release, the impact of foreign currency translation decreased net income by $0.04 per share.
 
Effective tax rate
on continuing operations increased to 31.5% in the first quarter, reflecting an underlying tax rate on operations of approximately 29%, plus the impact of a non-cash deferred tax expense on the U.S. pension curtailment gain.  The prior year quarter effective tax rate on operations was 29.5%.
 
Average diluted shares outstanding
decreased to 289 million in the first quarter compared to 320 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to share repurchases in prior quarters.  The Company has approximately $850 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
 
Discontinued Operations
after-tax income was $50 million or $0.17 per share compared to after-tax income of $41 million or $0.13 per share for the prior year quarter.  Discontinued operations primarily include a $43 million after-tax gain on the sale of Automobile Insurance Specialists (AIS).  The prior year quarter includes the results of AIS, the run-off property and casualty insurance operations, Combined Insurance Company of America and Sterling Life Insurance.
FIRST QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted revenue, pretax income and pretax margins in the first quarter of 2009 and 2008.  The first quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share" on page 10 of this press release.
 
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue decreased 1% to $1.6 billion compared to the prior year quarter due to a 10% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation on commissions and fees and a 41% decline in investment income, partially offset by a 9% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions and 1% organic revenue growth.  Americas organic revenue increased 2% reflecting strong growth in Latin America and solid growth in Canada and in our Affinity business.  U.K. organic revenue decreased 5% due primarily to soft market conditions and lower new business.  EMEA organic revenue was unchanged as strong growth in emerging markets was offset by weak economic conditions in continental Europe.  Asia Pacific organic revenue decreased 2% reflecting the impact of economic weakness in Asia and the impact from exiting certain businesses in Japan.  Reinsurance organic revenue increased 1% due primarily to growth in global treaty placements.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the first quarter decreased $103 million from the prior year quarter including a $103 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation,
a $58 million pension curtailment gain
and $31 million of cost savings related to the restructuring programs
, primarily offset by the inclusion of operating expense from the recent Benfield merger and a $7 million increase in pension expense.
  Other expenses for the first quarter decreased $13 million from the prior year quarter including a $44 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and a $13 million decrease for
the previously disclosed reviews under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws in other countries and related compliance initiatives
, partially offset by the
inclusion of Benfield operating expenses
and a $9 million increase in intangible amortization primarily related to the merger with Benfield.
 
First quarter pretax income increased 35% to $328 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 10 of this press release, pretax income increased 4% or $12 million to $321 million and pretax margin increased 100 basis points to 20.7% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits of the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs and the inclusion of pretax income from the merger with Benfield
,
partially offset by a $21 million decrease in investment income and higher intangible amortization and pension expenses.
 
CONSULTING
 
 
Consulting total revenue decreased 10% to $309 million compared to the prior year quarter due to a 10% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, a 2% decrease from dispositions net of acquisitions, partially offset by 2% organic growth in commissions and fees.  Organic revenue in Consulting Services increased 2% reflecting growth in health and benefits consulting, partially offset by a decline in human capital consulting, including a significant decline in compensation consulting.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing declined 4% as a previously announced outsourcing contract winds down, partially offset by modest growth in benefits outsourcing.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the first quarter decreased 19% or $39 million from the prior year quarter including a
$21 million pension curtailment gain,
$20 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program.  Other expenses decreased 3% or $2 million compared to the prior year quarter including a $9 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
First quarter pretax income increased 11% to $70 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 10 of this press release, pretax income decreased 21% or $14 million to $52 million and pretax margin decreased 240 basis points to 16.8% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to a 160 basis point impact from compensation consulting.
 
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
 
 
Unallocated investment income
for the first quarter decreased $4 million to $1 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to the timing of distributions in certain private equity holdings and a decline in average interest rates.  increased $7 million to $27 million versus the prior year quarter due primarily to a $5 million increase in pension expense.  decreased $4 million to $29 million from the prior year quarter due to fluctuations in foreign currency and a decline in average interest rates on outstanding debt.
Unallocated expenses
Interest expense
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will host a conference call on Friday, May 1, 2009 at 7:30 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
 
About Aon
 
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 37,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon readily delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008 and 2009 Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007 and 2008, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007 and 2008 by the readers of Business Insurance.  For more information on Aon, log onto http://www.aon.com/.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, our ability to integrate Benfield successfully and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth and several additional measures including expenses, margins and income per share, that exclude the effects of restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that affected results for the comparable periods.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  Reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  Supplemental organic revenue growth information and additional measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
Tax rate from continuing operations is 31.5% and 29.5% for the first quarters ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The underlying tax rate on continuing operations for 2009 is approximately 29%.
(1)
         
 
Tax rate from discontinued operations is 45.1% and 37.9% for the first quarters ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
(2)
         
 
In accordance with FSP EITF 03-6-1, the basic net income per share calculation for the first quarters ended March 31, 2009 and 2008 includes 7.3 million and 7.6 million additional shares related to unvested share-based payment awards that have a right to receive nonforfeitable dividends.
(3)
         
Aon Corporation
 
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
Organic revenue growth excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.
(1)
         
 
Aon Corporation - Segments (Unaudited)
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services - Continuing Operations
 
 
Consulting - Continuing Operations
 
 
Reconciliation of segment income before provision for income tax to income from continuing operations before provision for income tax:
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited) (1)
 
 
 
Certain noteworthy items impacting revenue and pretax income in 2009 and 2008 are described in this schedule.  The revenue, income (loss) from continuing operations before provision for income tax, diluted earnings per share from continuing operations and related margins shown with the caption "as adjusted" are non-GAAP measures.
(1)
         
 
Tax rate from continuing operations is 28.7% and 29.7% for the first quarters ended March 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
(2)
         
 
Aon Corporation
2007 Restructuring Plan (Unaudited)
 
 
Benfield Restructuring Plan (Unaudited)
 
 
Note: In the Consolidated Summary of Operations, workforce reductions are included in "Compensation and benefits," lease consolidations and other costs associated with restructuring are included in "Other general expenses," and asset impairments are included in "Depreciation and amortization."
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations - Reflects the adoption of FSP EITF 03-6-1 and the reclassification
of noncontrolling interests (unaudited)
 
 
Aon Corporation
Segments   Reclassified for the change in the presentation of noncontrolling interests (unaudited)
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes short-term investments: 2009 - $3,690; 2008 - $3,178.
(2) Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation.


