FILE:AON/AON-8K-20090730065031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
                     
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
                     
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
                     
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
                     
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
                                         
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On July 30, 2009, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and six months ended June 30, 2009.
 
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) - (c)
         
Not applicable.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News from Aon
 
Total Revenue was $1.9 billion and EPS from Continuing Operations was $0.51
 
Second Quarter Highlights
 
                 
EPS from continuing operations, excluding certain items, increased 9% to $0.76
                 
Brokerage revenue was $1.6 billion with flat organic growth
                 
Brokerage pretax margin was 13.3% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 130 basis points to 19.6%
                 
Consulting revenue was $300 million with a decline in organic revenue of 1%
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 13.7% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 100 basis points to 15.0%
                 
Repurchased 3.4 million shares of common stock for $125 million
                 
Completed 500 million Euro offering of 6.25% guaranteed notes due July 1, 2014
 
CHICAGO, IL  July 30, 2009
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2009.
 
Net income
attributable to Aon stockholders was $149 million or $0.52 per share, compared to $1.1 billion or $3.71 per share for the prior year quarter.  The decrease from the prior year quarter relates primarily to the $1.0 billion after-tax gain on the sales of Combined Insurance Companies of America (CICA) and Sterling Life Insurance (Sterling) that was included in the second quarter 2008.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations decreased 11% to $147 million or $0.51 per share, compared to $166 million or $0.54 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, increased 9% to $0.76 compared to $0.70 for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted second quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures on page 12 of this press release.
 
"Our second quarter results reflect continued progress and a strong performance against difficult economic and industry conditions.  Our organic revenue performance was led by four percent organic growth in our industry-leading reinsurance franchise, our total adjusted pretax margin increased 180 basis points, and adjusted earnings per share from continuing operations increased nine percent," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer, Aon Corporation.  "Despite macro-related challenges, we continue to strengthen the underlying foundation of Aon and invest heavily in the fundamental client-serving capabilities of our firm, as the merger with Benfield continues to perform exceptionally well.  The 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are fully on-track and enabling investment in future growth with significant opportunity for margin
expansion as we have achieved less than 40% thus far, of the total $492 million of savings we anticipate to realize under these two programs.  Lastly, our balance sheet provides significant financial flexibility to effectively allocate capital and deliver long-term shareholder value, as highlighted by the repurchase of $125 million of our common stock in the second quarter."
 
SECOND QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
Total
decreased 4% to $1.9 billion due to a 9% decline resulting from foreign currency translation and a 69% decline in investment income, partially offset by a 7% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions.
revenue
 
Total operating expenses
decreased 3% or $43 million to $1.7 billion, including a $160 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by operating expenses from the Benfield merger and a $42 million increase in restructuring charges.
 
Restructuring expenses
related to the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs were $95 million in the second quarter compared to $53 million in the prior year quarter. 
An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment and type for both the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are detailed on page 13 of this release.
 
Restructuring savings
in the second quarter related to the 2007 restructuring program are estimated at $52 million compared to $16 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the second quarter, $45 million were related to the Brokerage segment primarily for workforce reduction.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the 2007 restructuring program is currently expected to deliver cumulative run-rate cost savings of approximately $240-265 million in 2009 and $370 million in 2010.
 
Restructuring savings in the second quarter related to the Aon Benfield restructuring program are estimated at $10 million.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the Benfield restructuring program is currently expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of $33-41 million in 2009, $84-94 million in 2010 and $122 million in 2011.
 
Foreign currency
translation decreased net income by $0.03 per share compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar against most major currencies.  Excluding certain items highlighted on page 12 of this press release, the impact of foreign currency translation decreased net income by $0.04 per share ($0.04 per share unfavorable impact in Brokerage, $0.01 per share unfavorable impact in Consulting, partially offset by a $0.01 favorable impact in unallocated expenses).
 
Effective tax rate
on continuing operations was 27.1% for the second quarter compared to 25.2% for the prior year quarter.  The rate in the second quarter includes an underlying tax rate on operations of 28.0%.  The prior year quarter reflected an underlying tax rate on operations of 30.0% and included the favorable resolution of prior year tax issues in the U.K.
 
Average diluted shares outstanding
decreased to 289 million in the second quarter compared to 305 million in the prior year quarter, due primarily to the Company's share repurchase program.  During the quarter, the Company repurchased 3.4 million shares of common stock for $125 million.  As of June 30, the Company had approximately $730 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
Discontinued Operations
after-tax income was $2 million or $0.01 per share compared to after-tax income of $967 million or $3.17 per share for the prior year quarter.  Discontinued operations include results of the run-off property and casualty insurance operations.  The prior year quarter includes the results of Automobile Insurance Specialists (AIS), the run-off property and casualty insurance operations and
a $1.0 billion after-tax gain on the sales of CICA and Sterling.
 
SECOND QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted pretax income and pretax margins in the second quarter of 2009 and 2008.  The second quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share" on page 12 of this press release.
 
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue decreased 2% to $1.6 billion compared to the prior year quarter due to a 9% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation on commissions and fees and a 61% decline in investment income, partially offset by a 9% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions.  Americas organic revenue increased 3% reflecting strong new business growth in both U.S. Retail and Latin America.  U.K. organic revenue decreased 5% due primarily to weak economic conditions and lower new business.  EMEA organic revenue decreased 3% as weak economic conditions in continental Europe offset growth in certain emerging markets.  Asia Pacific organic revenue decreased 1% reflecting the impact of exiting certain businesses in Japan, partially offset by modest growth in Australia and certain emerging markets.  Reinsurance organic revenue increased 4% due primarily to growth in global treaty and facultative placements.
 
Compensation and benefits for the second quarter increased $9 million from the prior year quarter including a $93 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and benefits related to the restructuring programs
, primarily offset by increased operating expenses from the Benfield merger and a $34 million increase in restructuring related costs.
  Other expenses for the second quarter decreased $14 million from the prior year quarter including a $41 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and a $10 million decrease related to the
reviews under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and similar laws in other countries and related compliance initiatives
, partially offset by the
inclusion of Benfield operating expenses
and an $11 million increase in intangible amortization primarily related to the merger with Benfield.  The prior year quarter included $20 million of legacy litigation accruals.
 
Second quarter pretax income decreased 10% to $210 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income increased 5% or $15 million to $309 million and pretax margin increased 130 basis points to 19.6% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits of the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs and the inclusion of pretax income from the merger with Benfield
,
partially offset by a $30 million decrease in investment income and higher intangible amortization expenses.
 
CONSULTING
 
 
Consulting total revenue decreased 11% to $300 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a 9% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a 1% organic decline
in commissions and fees revenue.  Organic revenue in Consulting Services decreased 1% reflecting a decline in human capital and compensation consulting, partially offset by modest growth in health and benefits consulting.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing declined 4% as a previously announced outsourcing contract winds down, partially offset by modest growth in benefits outsourcing.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the second quarter decreased 10% or $21 million from the prior year quarter including a $17 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation and benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program.  Other expenses decreased 16% or $14 million compared to the prior year quarter due to an $8 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Second quarter pretax income decreased 5% to $41 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income decreased 4% or $2 million to $45 million and pretax margin increased 100 basis points to 15.0% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program and solid expense discipline.
 
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
 
 
Unallocated investment income and other revenue
for the second quarter decreased $4 million to $13 million compared to the prior year quarter due to a decline in average interest rates and lower
cash balances, primarily offset by $10 million of revenue related to the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds acquired with Benfield.  decreased $9 million to $28 million versus the prior year quarter, including the recognition of a $5 million gain on the extinguishment of a portion of the Company's trust preferred securities and lower compensation related expenses, partially offset by $6 million of expense related to the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds acquired with Benfield.  decreased $5 million to $26 million from the prior year quarter due to fluctuations in foreign currency and a decline in average interest rates on outstanding debt.
Unallocated expenses
Interest expense
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will host a conference call on Thursday, July 30, 2009 at 7:30 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
 
About Aon
 
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 37,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon readily delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008 and 2009 Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007 and 2008, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007 and 2008 by the readers of Business Insurance.  For more information on Aon, log onto http://www.aon.com/.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, our ability to integrate Benfield successfully and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth and several additional measures including expenses, margins and income per share, that exclude the effects of restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that affected results for the comparable periods.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  The impact of foreign exchange is determined by translating last year's revenue, expense or net income at this year's foreign exchange rates.  Reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  Supplemental organic revenue growth information and additional measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  They should be viewed in addition to,
not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
 
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
 
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation - Segments (Unaudited)
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services   Continuing Operations
 
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited) (1)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation - Restructuring Plans
(Unaudited)
(1)
 
2007 Restructuring Plan
 
 
Benfield Restructuring Plan
 
 
(1)
        
In the Consolidated Summary of Operations, workforce reductions are included in "Compensation and benefits," lease consolidations and other costs associated with restructuring are included in "Other general expenses," and asset impairments are included in "Depreciation and amortization."
 
(2)
        
Represents estimated liabilities to be incurred within one year of the acquisition date (11/30/08). Any excess liabilities will be reversed if obligations are settled for less than expected.
 
 
 
(1) Includes short-term investments:  2009 - $3,694; 2008 - $3,178.
(2) Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation.


