FILE:AON/AON-8K-20091030063446.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
             
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 30, 2009, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2009.
 
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) - (c)
  
Not applicable.
 
(d)
          
Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Investor Relations           
 
News from Aon
  
Total Revenue was $1.8 billion and EPS from Continuing Operations was $0.40
 
Third Quarter Summary
                 
EPS from continuing operations, excluding certain items, decreased 6% to $0.65
                 
Brokerage revenue was $1.5 billion with a decline in organic revenue of 3%
                 
Brokerage pretax margin was 12.6% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 140 basis points to 18.4%
                 
Consulting revenue was $308 million with a decline in organic revenue of 5%
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 10.7% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, decreased 10 basis points to 15.6%
                 
Repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $125 million
                 
Increased estimated annualized savings related to the 2007 restructuring program by $97 million to $467 million, and costs necessary to achieve savings by $150 million to $700 million
                 
Accelerated estimated savings targets for 2009 and 2010 under the Aon Benfield restructuring program, while decreasing total costs necessary to achieve savings by $30 million to $155 million
 
CHICAGO, IL  October 30, 2009
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2009.
 
Net income
attributable to Aon stockholders was $120 million or $0.41 per share, compared to $117 million or $0.40 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations decreased 25% to $117 million or $0.40 per share, compared to $155 million or $0.53 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, decreased 6% to $0.65 compared to $0.69 for the prior year quarter, including a $62 million or 69% decline in investment income.  Certain items that impacted third quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures on page 12 of this press release.
 
"Our third quarter results reflect solid operational discipline, as highlighted by a 140 basis point adjusted pretax margin improvement in our Brokerage segment, despite difficult economic and industry conditions and a 69 percent decline in total investment income," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer.  "We continue to make substantial investments across our businesses with the rollout of our Global Risk Insight Platform and the introduction of Inpoint, our insurance carrier consulting business, as well as the addition of key talent in Consulting.  As we invest in future growth opportunities, our 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs will
 
 
continue to deliver additional cost savings as we have achieved less than 40 percent thus far, of the total $589 million of estimated annual savings under these two programs.  Lastly, our balance sheet and strong cash flow provide significant financial flexibility to create shareholder value, as highlighted by the repurchase of an additional $125 million of stock during the quarter."
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Total
decreased 2% to $1.8 billion due to a 5% decline resulting from foreign currency translation and a 69% decline in investment income, partially offset by a 9% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions.
revenue
 
Total operating expenses
were similar to the prior year quarter at $1.6 billion, including an $82 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by a $45 million increase in restructuring charges and operating expenses from the Benfield merger.
 
Restructuring expenses
related to the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs were $99 million in the third quarter compared to $54 million in the prior year quarter. 
An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment and type for both the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are detailed on page 13 of this release.
 
Restructuring savings
in the third quarter related to the 2007 restructuring program are estimated at $68 million compared to $29 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the third quarter, $57 million were related to the Brokerage segment primarily for workforce reduction.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the 2007 restructuring program is now expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of approximately $240-245 million in 2009 and $467 million of annualized run-rate cost savings by the end of 2010, primarily as a result of additional cost savings opportunities to streamline support functions globally.
 
Restructuring savings in the third quarter related to the Aon Benfield restructuring program are estimated at $14 million.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the Benfield restructuring program is now expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of $45-50 million in 2009, $90-100 million in 2010 and $122 million in 2011.
 
Currency
fluctuations in the third quarter negatively impacted income from continuing operations by $0.01 per diluted share when the Company translates prior year quarter results at current quarter foreign exchange rates.
 
Effective tax rate
on continuing operations was 26.7% for the third quarter compared to 27.1% for the prior year quarter.  The rate in the third quarter includes an underlying tax rate on operations of 28.0%.
 
Average diluted shares outstanding
decreased to 292.1 million in the third quarter compared to 293.9 million in the prior year quarter.  As a result of accounting guidance introduced in the first quarter, share-based payment awards which receive non-forfeitable dividends are now included in the calculation of basic and diluted shares outstanding.  Average diluted shares outstanding increased by approximately 3.4 million in the third quarter and 3.6 million in the prior year quarter as a result of these share-based awards being included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share.
 
During the quarter, the Company repurchased 3.0 million shares of common stock for $125 million.  As of September 30, the Company had approximately $605 million of remaining share repurchase authorization.
 
Discontinued Operations
after-tax income was $3 million or $0.01 per share compared to an after-tax loss of $38 million or $0.13 per share for the prior year quarter.  Discontinued operations include adjustments to the gains and losses of previously sold companies.  The prior year quarter includes the results of Automobile Insurance Specialists (AIS) and post-close adjustments related to the sale of Combined Insurance Companies of America (CICA) and Sterling Life Insurance (Sterling).
 
THIRD QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
Certain noteworthy items impacted pretax income and pretax margins in the third quarter of 2009 and 2008.  The third quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share" on page 12 of this press release.
 
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue increased 1% to $1.5 billion compared to the prior year quarter due to an 11% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions, partially offset by a 5% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation on commissions and fees and a 63% decline in investment income.  Americas organic revenue decreased 1% due primarily to weak economic conditions and a soft market in both U.S. Retail and Canada, partially offset by strong growth in Latin America.  U.K. organic revenue decreased 4% due primarily to weak economic conditions and lower new business.  EMEA organic revenue decreased 5% as weak economic conditions in continental Europe offset growth in certain emerging markets.  Asia Pacific organic revenue decreased 1% reflecting the impact of exiting certain businesses in Japan, partially offset by modest growth in New Zealand and certain emerging markets.  Reinsurance organic revenue decreased 4% due primarily to higher cedent retentions in treaty business, partially offset by new business growth globally in treaty placements.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter was similar to the prior year quarter including a $48 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, benefits related to the restructuring programs and lower discretionary incentive compensation
, primarily offset by increased operating expenses from the Benfield merger and a $7 million increase in restructuring related costs.
  Other expenses for the third quarter increased $13 million from the prior year quarter due primarily to
a $24 million increase in restructuring related costs
, the
inclusion of Benfield operating expenses
and an $11 million increase in intangible amortization expense related to the merger with Benfield, partially offset by a $18 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Third quarter pretax income decreased 2% to $188 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income increased 9% or $23 million to $274 million and pretax margin increased 140 basis points to 18.4% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits of the restructuring programs, lower discretionary incentive compensation and the inclusion of pretax income from the merger with Benfield
,
partially offset by a $30 million decrease in investment income and higher intangible amortization expenses.
 
CONSULTING
 
Consulting total revenue decreased 9% to $308 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a 5% decline in organic commissions and fees revenue and a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.  Organic revenue in Consulting Services decreased 5%
 
 
primarily reflecting a decline in compensation and human capital consulting.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing declined 5% as a previously announced outsourcing contract winds down.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter decreased 4% or $8 million from the prior year quarter including a $9 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program and lower discretionary incentive compensation, partially offset by
a $7 million increase in restructuring related costs
.  Other expenses decreased 3% or $2 million compared to the prior year quarter due to a $3 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Third quarter pretax income decreased 37% to $33 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income decreased 9% or $5 million to $48 million and pretax margin decreased 10 basis points to 15.6% versus the prior year quarter as lower organic revenue was partially offset by benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program and lower discretionary incentive compensation.
 
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
 
 
Unallocated investment income and other revenue
for the third quarter decreased $21 million to $19 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a $27 million decline in certain private equity distributions, partially offset by $10 million of revenue related to the
Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds.  decreased $4 million to $30 million.  The third quarter included $3 million of expense related to the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds.  The prior year quarter included $6 million of costs related to the Benfield merger.  was similar to the prior year quarter at $32 million.
Unallocated expenses
Interest expense
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will host a conference call on Friday, October 30, 2009 at 7:30 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
 
About Aon
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AOC - News) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 37,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon readily delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008 and 2009 Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008 and 2009. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007, 2008, and 2009, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007 and 2008 by the readers of Business Insurance. For more information on Aon, log onto http://www.aon.com.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, our ability to integrate Benfield successfully and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth and several additional measures including expenses, margins and income per share, that exclude the effects of restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that affected results for the comparable periods.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  The impact of foreign exchange is determined by translating last year's revenue, expense or net income at this year's foreign exchange rates.  Reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  Supplemental organic revenue growth information and additional measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Summary of Operations.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Summary of Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
 
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
 
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation - Segments (Unaudited)
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services   Continuing Operations
 
 
Consulting - Continuing Operations
 
 
Reconciliation of segment income before provision for income tax to income from continuing operations before provision for income tax:
 
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of the Impact of Non-GAAP Measures on Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited) (1)
 
 
 
 
Aon Corporation - Restructuring Plans (Unaudited) (1)
 
2007 Restructuring Plan
 
 
Benfield Restructuring Plan
 
 
 
 
(1) Includes short-term investments:  2009 - $3,440; 2008 - $3,178.


