FILE:AON/AON-8K-20101029064840.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
                                       
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On October 29, 2010, Aon Corporation issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and nine months ended September 30, 2010.
 
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.
                                       
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) - (c)
        
Not applicable.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
News from Aon
 
Third Quarter Highlights
                 
Total revenue was $1.8 billion with organic revenue similar to the prior year quarter
                 
EPS from continuing operations increased 28% to $0.51 and adjusted EPS from continuing operations, excluding certain items, decreased 6% to $0.61
                 
Brokerage revenue was $1.5 billion with a decline in organic revenue of 1%
                 
Brokerage operating margin was 17.4% and the adjusted operating margin, excluding certain items, decreased 10 basis points to 17.9%
                 
Consulting revenue was $321 million with an increase in organic revenue of 4%
                 
Consulting operating margin was 16.8% and the adjusted operating margin, excluding certain items, increased 150 basis points to 17.1%
                 
Subsequent to close of the quarter, completed the merger of Hewitt Associates, Inc. with Aon Consulting, creating a global leader in HR solutions
 
CHICAGO, IL  October 29, 2010
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 30, 2010.
 
Net income
attributable to Aon stockholders was $144 million or $0.51 per share, compared to $120 million or $0.41 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations increased 23% to $144 million or $0.51 per share, compared to $117 million or $0.40 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income per share attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations, excluding certain items, decreased 6% to $0.61 compared to $0.65 for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted third quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures on page 12 of this press release.
 
"Our third quarter results reflect solid operational performance against a challenging global economy.  We delivered four percent organic revenue growth and a 150 basis point increase in margin in our Consulting segment and continued to improve the run-rate of organic revenue in our retail Brokerage business," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer.  "Our GRIP platform, Aon Broking initiatives and benefits related to the restructuring programs are expected to deliver long-term growth and significant margin improvement in our Brokerage segment.  We also are excited about the recently completed merger of Hewitt with Aon Consulting, which substantially strengthens our position as the preeminent global professional services firm focused on risk and people.  Aon Hewitt's senior leadership team is fully in place, the integration is well underway and support from clients around the globe has been exceptional."
 
THIRD QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
Total
was similar to the prior year quarter at $1.8 billion due to a 2% increase from acquisitions, primarily Allied North America, net of dispositions, offset by a 1% decrease from foreign currency translation and a 6% decline in fiduciary investment income.
revenue
 
Total operating expenses
decreased 4% or $62 million to $1.5 billion due primarily to a $91 million decrease in restructuring related expenses, benefits related to the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs and an estimated $30 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by the
inclusion of operating expenses related to recent acquisitions and $19 million of costs associated with the merger of Hewitt with Aon Consulting.
 
Restructuring expenses
were $8 million in the third quarter compared to $99 million in the prior year quarter.  Including the third quarter expenses, the Company has now incurred 100% of the $749 million of total costs necessary to deliver the remaining savings under
the 2007 restructuring program and 84% of the $155 million of total costs necessary to deliver the remaining savings under the Aon Benfield restructuring program.  An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment and type are detailed on page 13 of this release.
 
Restructuring savings
in the third quarter related to the 2007 restructuring program are estimated at $125 million compared to $68 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the third quarter, $105 million were related to the Brokerage segment primarily from workforce reductions.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the 2007 restructuring program is expected to deliver $536 million of annualized run-rate cost savings by the end of 2010.
 
Restructuring savings in the third quarter related to the Aon Benfield restructuring program are estimated at $27 million compared to $14 million in the prior year quarter.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the Benfield restructuring program is expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of $122 million in 2011.
 
Currency
fluctuations in the third quarter favorably impacted adjusted net income from continuing operations by $0.02 per diluted share when the Company translates prior year quarter results at current quarter foreign exchange rates.
 
Effective tax rate
on net income from continuing operations increased to 29.4% in the third quarter compared to 26.7% in the prior year quarter due primarily to certain deferred tax adjustments.  The underlying tax rate on continuing operations is estimated to be approximately 30% for the fourth quarter 2010 including the impact of the Hewitt merger.
 
Average diluted shares outstanding
decreased to 282.2 million in the third quarter compared to 292.1 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to the Company's share repurchase program.  The company has approximately $165 million remaining under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2005 and $2 billion under the share repurchase program previously authorized in 2010.
 
THIRD QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
Certain noteworthy items impacted operating income and operating margins in the third quarter of 2010 and 2009.  The third quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to organic revenue, adjusted operating income and operating margin which is
described in detail on the "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Organic Revenue" on page 11 and "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Operating Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share" on page 12 of this press release.
 
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue was similar to the prior year quarter at $1.5 billion due to a 2% increase from acquisitions, primarily Allied North America, net of dispositions, offset by a 1% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a 1% organic decline in commissions and fees.
 
Retail organic revenue was similar to the prior year quarter.  By geographic region in Retail, the Americas organic revenue increased 1% due to strong growth in Latin America and benefits related to the Global Risk Insight Platform (GRIP), partially offset by continued weakness in construction and the impact of soft pricing on the renewal book portfolio in U.S. Retail.  U.K. organic revenue decreased 8% due primarily to weak economic conditions and soft pricing.  EMEA organic revenue increased 4% due to modest growth in Continental Europe and strong growth in emerging markets.  APAC organic revenue increased 2% reflecting strong growth in New Zealand and China, partially offset by weak economic conditions in Thailand.  Reinsurance organic revenue decreased 4% due primarily to soft pricing globally in treaty placements.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter decreased 7% or $63 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a
$40 million decrease in restructuring related costs, a
$20 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation
and
benefits related to the
restructuring programs, partially offset by the inclusion of operating expenses related to recent acquisitions.
 
Other expenses for the third quarter decreased 4% or $14 million from the prior year quarter due primarily to a
$36 million decrease in restructuring related costs,
benefits related to the restructuring programs and a $7 million favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by the inclusion of operating expenses related to recent acquisitions and expenses related to the launch of the Manchester United global partnership.
 
Third quarter operating income increased 42% to $258 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, operating income decreased 1% or $2 million to $266 million and operating margin decreased 10 basis points to 17.9% compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a modest decline in organic revenue, the inclusion of results related to recent acquisitions and expenses related to the launch of the Manchester United partnership, primarily offset by benefits of the restructuring programs.
 
CONSULTING
 
 
Consulting total revenue increased 4% to $321 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a 4% organic increase in commissions and fees, 2% increase from acquisitions, primarily J.P. Morgan Compensation and Benefits Strategies, net of dispositions, partially offset by a 2% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Organic revenue in Consulting Services increased 1% primarily reflecting solid growth in global compensation consulting and international health and benefits brokerage, partially offset by the impact of weak economic conditions on retirement consulting.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing increased 19% due to growth from new business in the U.S. and U.K in benefits outsourcing.
 
Compensation and benefits for the third quarter decreased 5% or $9 million from the prior year quarter due primarily to a
$10 million decrease in restructuring related costs and
benefits related to the restructuring programs, partially offset by a
$3 million increase from the
inclusion of operating expenses related to recent acquisitions.  Other expenses increased 1% or $1 million from the prior year quarter including a
$4 million increase from the
inclusion of operating expenses related to recent acquisitions, partially offset by a $5 million decrease in restructuring related costs.
 
Third quarter operating income increased 64% to $54 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, operating income increased 15% or $7 million to $55 million and operating margin increased 150 basis points to 17.1% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to growth in organic revenue and benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program.
 
INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS
 
 
Unallocated revenue
declined $9 million compared to the prior year quarter.  The prior year quarter reflected revenue related to the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds acquired with Benfield.  increased $19 million to $49 million due primarily to $18 million of costs related to the merger of Hewitt with Aon Consulting
Unallocated expenses
.  increased $18 million to $50 million due primarily to the inclusion of $14 million of non-recurring financing costs related to the merger of Hewitt with Aon Consulting.  was $9 million in the third quarter compared to income of $13 million in the prior year quarter.  The third quarter includes the loss on sale of a business.  The prior year quarter primarily included gains from investments and the sales of certain businesses.
Interest expense
Other expense
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
The Company will host a conference call on Friday, October 29, 2010 at 7:30 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
 
About Aon
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 59,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008, 2009 and 2010
Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008 and 2009. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007, 2008 and 2009 by the readers of Business Insurance. Visit http://www.aon.com for more information on Aon and http://www.aon.com/unitedin2010 to learn about Aon's global partnership and shirt sponsorship with Manchester United.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the merger with Hewitt will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the merger with Hewitt making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon and Hewitt do business around the world; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; funding of Aon's various pension plans; changes in the competitive environment; changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues; the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws; the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from error and omissions claims against Aon or Hewitt; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt retain existing clients and attract new businesses; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that Aon and Hewitt currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt operate, particularly given the global scope of Aon's and Hewitt's businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt do business; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits to Aon of the Benfield merger. Further information concerning Aon, Hewitt, and their business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's and Hewitt's financial results, is contained in Aon's and Hewitt's filings with the SEC. See Aon's and Hewitt's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Annual Reports to Stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively, and other public filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. Neither Aon nor Hewitt undertakes, and each of them expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures
This communication includes supplemental information related to organic revenue and several additional measures including expenses, margins and income per share, that exclude the effects of restructuring charges, transaction and integration costs and certain other noteworthy items that affected results for the comparable periods.  Organic revenue excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  The impact of foreign exchange is determined by translating last year's revenue, expense or net income at this year's foreign exchange rates.  Reconciliations are provided in the attached schedules.  Supplemental organic revenue information and additional measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
(1)
        
Tax rate for continuing operations is 29.4% and 26.7% for the third quarters ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 26.1% and 29.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
(2)
        
Tax rate for discontinued operations is 35.0% and not meaningful for the third quarters ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 32.9% and 40.9% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively.
 
Aon Corporation
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
(1)
         
Organic revenue excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  Change in organic revenue, a non-GAAP measure, is reconciled to the corresponding U.S. GAAP percent change in revenue on page 11 of this release.
 
Aon Corporation
Segments (Unaudited)
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services
 
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Organic Revenue (Unaudited)
 
 
(1)
         
Currency impact is determined by translating last year's revenue at this year's foreign exchange rates.
 
(2)
         
Organic revenue excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Operating Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited) (1)
 
 
(1)
         
Certain noteworthy items impacting operating income in 2010 and 2009 are described in this schedule.  The items shown with the caption "as adjusted" are non-GAAP measures.
 
(2)
         
The effective tax rate for continuing operations is 29.4% and 26.7% for the third quarters ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, and 26.1% and 29.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively (U.S. GAAP).  Reconciling items are generally taxed at the effective tax rate.  However, the nine months 2010 U.S. GAAP effective tax rate was adjusted to 27.0%, to exclude the 40% tax rate applied to a $49 million U.S. pension expense adjustment for prior years recorded in the second quarter.  In addition, the nine months 2009 U.S. GAAP effective tax rate was adjusted to 27.7% to exclude the impact of the 40% tax rate applied to a $83 million U.S. pension curtailment gain.
 
Aon Corporation
Restructuring Plans (Unaudited) (1)
 
2007 Restructuring Plan
 
By Type:
 
 
Benfield Restructuring Plan
 
By Type:
 
 
(1)
         
In the Consolidated Statements of Income, workforce reductions are included in "Compensation and benefits";  lease consolidations, asset impairments, and other costs associated with restructuring are included in "Other general expenses".
 
(2)
         
Represents costs associated with the execution of restructuring activity identified at the acquisition date (November 30, 2008).
 
Aon Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Position
 
 
(1) Includes short-term investments:  2010 - $3,793, 2009 - $3,329.
 
Aon Corporation
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Unaudited)
 
 
Selected Financial Data for Hewitt Associates, Inc.
 
 
(1)
        
Organic revenue excludes the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, and third-party revenues.


