FILE:AON/AON-8K-20100910171423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
x
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On September 7, 2010, Aon Corporation (the "Company") entered into an Underwriting Agreement (the "Underwriting Agreement") with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as Representatives of the several Underwriters named therein, with respect to the offering and sale by the Company of $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 3.50% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes"), $600,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 5.00% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and $300,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes" and, together with the 2015 and 2020 Notes, the "Notes") under the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-159841). The Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, as trustee (the "Trustee") (the "Indenture").
 
The net proceeds from the sale of the Notes have been deposited into an escrow account pursuant to the Escrow Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, among the Company, the Trustee and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, as escrow agent (the "Escrow Agreement"). The net proceeds of the Notes are to be held in the escrow pending consummation of the Company's merger with Hewitt Associates, Inc. ("Hewitt") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated July 11, 2010, among the Company, Alps Merger Corp., Alps Merger LLC and Hewitt (the "Merger Agreement").  In the event that, for any reason, (i) the Company does not consummate the merger with Hewitt on or prior to March 31, 2011 or (ii) the Merger Agreement is terminated at any time prior thereto, then the Company will redeem all of the Notes on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the later of the date of initial issuance or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, whichever is later, to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of holders of record on the relevant record date to receive interest due on the relevant interest payment date).  "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) April 30, 2011, if the merger has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2011, or (2) the 30
th
 day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the termination of the Merger Agreement for any reason.
 
The Underwriting Agreement is filed as Exhibit 1.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The Indenture is filed as Exhibit 4.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. The forms of note for each of the 2015 Notes, 2020 Notes and 2040 Notes are filed as Exhibits 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, respectively, to this Current Report on Form 8-K, and are incorporated herein by reference. The Escrow Agreement is filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the issuance of the Notes, Sidley Austin LLP is filing the legal opinions  attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibits 5.1 and 8.1.
 
On September 7, 2010, the Company issued a press release announcing its agreement to sell the Notes.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 

Exhibit 1.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
September , 2010
7
 
CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC
MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INCORPORATED
BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC
DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC.
RBS SECURITIES INC.,
As Representatives of the Several Underwriters,
c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC,
Eleven Madison Avenue,
New York, N.Y. 10010-3629
 
Dear Sirs:
 
1.  . Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), agrees with the several Underwriters named in Schedule A hereto ("") to issue and sell to the several Underwriters $600,000,000 principal amount of its 3.500% Senior Notes due 2015 (""), $600,000,000 principal amount of its 5.000% Senior Notes due 2020 ("") and $300,000,000 principal amount of its 6.250% Senior Notes due 2040 ("", and together with the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes, the "") to be issued under an indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee, (the "").
Introductory
Company
Underwriters
2015 Notes
2020 Notes
2040 Notes
Offered Securities
Indenture
 
As part of the transactions described under the heading "SummaryAon CorporationPending Merger with Hewitt" in the General Disclosure Package, the Company intends to merge with Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ""), dated as of July 11, 2010, by and among the Company, Alps Merger Corp., Alps Merger LLC and Hewitt, subject to the conditions and terms of such Merger Agreement (the "").
Hewitt
Merger Agreement
Merger
 
2.  .  The Company represents and warrants to, and agrees with, the several Underwriters that:
Representations and Warranties of the Company
 
(a)  .  The Company has filed with the Commission a registration statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-159841), including a related prospectus or prospectuses, covering the registration of the Offered Securities under the Act, which has become effective.  "" at any particular time means such registration statement in the form then filed with the Commission, including any amendment thereto, any document incorporated by reference therein and all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to such registration statement, that in any case has not been superseded or modified.  "" without reference to a time means the Registration Statement as of the Effective Time.  For purposes of this definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Registration Statement as of the time specified in Rule 430B.
Filing and Effectiveness of Registration Statement; Certain Defined Terms
Registration Statement
Registration Statement
 
 
For purposes of this Agreement:
 
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(e) or retroactively deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430B(f).
430B Information
 
"" means information included in a prospectus then deemed to be a part of the Registration Statement pursuant to Rule 430C.
430C Information
 
"" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Act
 
"" means 6:15 p.m. (Eastern time) on the date of this Agreement.
Applicable Time
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 3 hereof.
Closing Date
 
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Commission
 
"" of the Registration Statement relating to the Offered Securities means the time of the first contract of sale for the Offered Securities.
Effective Time
 
"" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Exchange Act
 
"" means the Statutory Prospectus that discloses the public offering price, other 430B Information and other final terms of the Offered Securities, and otherwise satisfies Section 10(a) of the Act.
Final Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is intended for general distribution to prospective investors, as evidenced by its being so specified in Schedule B to this Agreement.
General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, relating to the Offered Securities in the form filed or required to be filed with the Commission or, if not required to be filed, in the form retained in the Company's records pursuant to Rule 433(g).
Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus that is not a General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus.
Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
"" means the rules and regulations of the Commission.
Rules and Regulations
 
"" means, collectively, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (""), the Act, the Exchange Act, the Trust Indenture Act, the Rules and Regulations, the auditing principles, rules, standards and practices applicable to auditors of "issuers" (as defined in Sarbanes-Oxley) promulgated or approved by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and, as applicable, the rules of the New York Stock Exchange ("").
Securities Laws
Sarbanes-Oxley
Exchange Rules
 
"" with reference to any particular time means the prospectus relating to the Offered Securities that is included in the Registration Statement immediately prior to that time, including all 430B Information and all 430C Information with respect to the Registration Statement.  For purposes of the foregoing definition, 430B Information shall be considered to be included in the Statutory Prospectus only as of the actual time that such form of prospectus (including a prospectus supplement) is filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b) and not retroactively.
Statutory Prospectus
 
"" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
Trust Indenture Act
 
Unless otherwise specified, a reference to a "rule" is to the indicated rule under the Act.
 
(b)  .  (i) (A) At the time the Registration Statement initially became effective, (B) at the time of each amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether by post-effective amendment, incorporated report or form of prospectus), (C) at the Effective Time and (D) on the Closing Date, the Registration Statement conformed and will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and Regulations and did not and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (ii) (A) on its date, (B) at the time of filing the Final Prospectus pursuant to Rule 424(b) and (C) on the Closing Date, the Final Prospectus will conform in all material respects to the requirements of the Act and the Rules and
Compliance with Act Requirements
 
Regulations, and will not include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Statement of Eligibility and Qualification (Form T-1) of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act and (ii) statements in or omissions from any such document based upon written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information is that described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
 
(c)  .  (i)  .  (A)  At the time of initial filing of the Registration Statement, (B) at the time of the most recent amendment thereto for the purposes of complying with Section 10(a)(3) of the Act (whether such amendment was by post-effective amendment, incorporated report filed pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act or form of prospectus), and (C) at the time the Company or any person acting on its behalf (within the meaning, for this clause only, of Rule 163(c)) made any offer relating to the Offered Securities in reliance on the exemption of Rule 163, the Company was a "well known seasoned issuer" as defined in Rule 405, including not having been an "ineligible issuer" as defined in Rule 405.
Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
Well-Known Seasoned Issuer Status
 
(ii)
   
Effectiveness of Automatic Shelf Registration Statement
.  The Registration Statement is an "automatic shelf registration statement," as defined in Rule 405, that initially became effective within three years of the date of this Agreement.
 
(iii)
  
Eligibility to Use Automatic Shelf Registration Form
.  The Company has not received from the Commission any notice pursuant to Rule 401(g)(2) objecting to use of the automatic shelf registration statement form.
 
(iv)
  
Filing Fees
.  The Company has paid or shall pay the required Commission filing fees relating to the Offered Securities within the time required by Rule 456(b)(1) without regard to the proviso therein and otherwise in accordance with Rules 456(b) and 457(r).
 
(d)
  
Ineligible Issuer Status
.  (i)  At the earliest time after the filing of the Registration Statement that the Company or another offering participant made a bona fide offer (within the meaning of Rule 164(h)(2)) of the Offered Securities and (ii) at the date of this Agreement, the Company was not and is not an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Rule 405.
 
(e)
  
General Disclosure Package
.  As of the Applicable Time, neither (i) the General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus(es) issued at or prior to the Applicable Time, the preliminary prospectus supplement, dated September 7, 2010, including the base prospectus, dated June 8, 2009 (which is the most recent Statutory Prospectus distributed to investors generally),any document incorporated by reference therein and the other information, if any, stated in Schedule B to this Agreement to be included in the General Disclosure Package, all considered together (collectively, the ""), nor (ii) any individual Limited Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when considered together with the General Disclosure Package, included any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.  The preceding sentence does not apply to statements in or omissions from the General Disclosure Package in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in Section 8(b) hereof.
General Disclosure Package
 
(f)
   
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
.  Each Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, as of its issue date and at all subsequent times through the Closing Date or until any earlier date that the Company notified or notifies the Representatives as described in the next sentence, did not, does not and will not include any information that conflicted, conflicts or will conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement.  If at any time following issuance of an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and prior to the Closing Date there occurred or occurs an event or development as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus
 
conflicted or would conflict with the information then contained in the Registration Statement or as a result of which such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, if republished immediately following such event or development, would, when considered together with the rest of the General Disclosure Package, include an untrue statement of a material fact or omitted or would omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, (i) the Company has promptly notified or will promptly notify Credit Suisse and (ii) the Company has promptly amended or will promptly amend or supplement such Issuer Free Writing Prospectus to eliminate or correct such conflict, untrue statement or omission.
 
(g)
  
Good standing of the Company
.  The Company has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the State of Delaware, with power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package; and the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to result in a material adverse effect or any development or event involving a prospective material adverse effect on the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole ("") .
Material Adverse Effect
 
(h)
  
Significant Subsidiaries
.  Each subsidiary of the Company which is a significant subsidiary as defined in Rule 1-02 of Regulation S-X under the Act (a "") (i) has been duly incorporated and is existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and (ii) has the power and authority (corporate and other) to own its properties and conduct its business as described in the General Disclosure Package, except, in the case of clause (ii) above, as would not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; and each Significant Subsidiary of the Company is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in all other jurisdictions in which its ownership or lease of property or the conduct of its business requires such qualification, except where the failure to so qualify or be in good standing would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary of the Company has been duly authorized and validly issued and is fully paid and nonassessable; and except as described in the General Disclosure Package, the capital stock of each Significant Subsidiary owned by the Company, directly or through subsidiaries, is owned free from liens, encumbrances and security interests.
Significant Subsidiary
 
(i)
   
Execution and Delivery of Indenture
.  The Indenture has been duly authorized and has been qualified under the Trust Indenture Act; the Offered Securities have been duly authorized and, when the Offered Securities are delivered and paid for pursuant to this Agreement on the Closing Date, the Indenture will have been duly executed and delivered (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Indenture by the Trustee), such Offered Securities will have been duly executed, authenticated, issued and delivered (assuming that the Offered Securities have been authenticated in the manner provided for in the Indenture) and will conform in all material respects to the information in the General Disclosure Package and to the description of such Offered Securities contained in the Final Prospectus and the Indenture and such Offered Securities will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
(j)
   
Absence of Further Requirements
.  No consent, approval, authorization or order of, or filing or registration with, any person (including any governmental agency or body or any court) is required for the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Indenture in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of the Offered Securities by the Company, except such as have been obtained or made and such as may be required under federal or state securities laws and except as disclosed or contemplated in the General Disclosure Package, the Final Prospectus and the Merger Agreement with respect to the Merger.
 
(k)
  
Absence of Defaults and Conflicts Resulting from Transaction
.  The issuance and sale by the Company of the Offered Securities and the execution and delivery by the Company of, and the performance by the Company of its obligations under, this Agreement, the Indenture and the Offered Securities will not contravene the certificate of incorporation or by-laws of the Company, any agreement or other instrument filed as a "material contract" with respect to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2010, the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2010, the Company's Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 12, 2010, August 16, 2010 and August 27, 2010, any provision of applicable law or any material judgment, order or decree of any governmental body, agency or court having jurisdiction over the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
(l)
   
Absence of Existing Defaults and Conflicts
.  The Company is not in violation of its organizational documents or in default (or with the giving of notice or lapse of time would be in default) in the performance or observance of any obligation, agreement, covenant or condition contained in any contract, indenture, mortgage, loan agreement, note, lease or other instrument or agreement to which it is a party or by which it or any of its properties may be bound, which violation or default would, individually or in the aggregate, result in a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(m)
 
Authorization of Agreement
.  This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company.
 
(n)
  
Possession of Licenses and Permits
.  The Company and its subsidiaries possess such certificates, authorities or permits issued by the appropriate state, federal or foreign regulatory agencies or bodies necessary to conduct the business now operated by them as described in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospects and, to the knowledge of the Company, have not received any notice of proceedings relating to the revocation or modification of any certificates, authorities or permits, except where the failure to possess such certificates, authorities or permits would not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(o)
  
Absence of Labor Dispute
.  No labor dispute with the employees of the Company or any of its subsidiaries exists or, to the knowledge of the Company, is imminent that could have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(p)
  
Accurate Disclosure
.  The statements in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus under the headings "Description of the Notes" and "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences" and the description of the Merger contained under the heading "SummaryAon CorporationPending Merger with Hewitt", insofar as such statements summarize legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings discussed therein, are accurate and fair summaries of such legal matters, agreements, documents or proceedings and present the information required to be shown.
 
(q)
  
Absence of Manipulation
.  The Company has not taken, directly or indirectly, any action that is designed to or that has constituted or that would reasonably be expected to cause or result in the stabilization or manipulation of the price of any security of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
 
(r)
   
Internal Controls
.  There are no material weaknesses in the Company's internal controls over financial reporting (""). Since the date of the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no change in the Company's Internal control that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's Internal Controls. The Company maintains a system of Internal Controls, including, but not limited to, disclosure controls and procedures, internal controls over accounting matters and financial reporting, an internal audit function and legal and regulatory compliance controls, that comply with Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act and are sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that (i) transactions are executed in accordance with management's general or specific authorizations, (ii) transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. General Accepted Accounting Principles and to
Internal Controls
 
maintain accountability for assets, (iii) access to assets is permitted only in accordance with management's general or specific authorization and (iv) the recorded accountability for assets is compared with the existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action is taken with respect to any differences.
 
(s)
  
Litigation
.  There are no legal or governmental proceedings pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries is a party or to which any of the properties of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is subject, other than proceedings fairly summarized in all material respects in the General Disclosure Package and proceedings which are not, individually or in the aggregate, reasonably expected to have a Material Adverse Effect on the Company and its subsidiaries or on the power or ability of the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement, the Indenture or the Offered Securities or to consummate the offering contemplated hereby.
 
(t)
   
Financial Statements
.  The financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus present fairly the financial position of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries as of the dates shown and their results of operations and cash flows for the periods shown, and such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with the generally accepted accounting principles in the United States applied on a consistent basis. The assumptions used in preparing the pro forma financial statements included in the Registration Statement, the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus provide a reasonable basis for presenting the significant effects directly attributable to the transactions or events described therein, the related pro forma adjustments give appropriate effect to those assumptions, and the pro forma columns therein reflect the proper application of those adjustments to the corresponding historical financial statement amounts. The pro forma financial statements included in each of the most recent Preliminary Prospectus, the Prospectus and the Registration Statement comply as to form in all material respects with the applicable accounting requirements of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act.
 
(u)
  
No Material Adverse Change in Business
.  Except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, since the end of the period covered by the latest audited financial statements included in the General Disclosure Package (i) there has been no change, nor any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business, properties or prospects of either (A) the Company and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole or (B) the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole after giving pro forma effect to the Merger, that is material and adverse, (ii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no dividend or distribution of any kind declared, paid or made by the Company on any class of its capital stock or, to the knowledge of the Company on any class of its capital stock, and (iii) except as disclosed in or contemplated by the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change in the capital stock, short-term indebtedness, long-term indebtedness, net current assets or net assets of the Company and its subsidiaries.
 
(v)
  
Merger with Hewitt
.  Nothing has come to the Company's attention that would cause it to believe that the Merger will not be consummated substantially in accordance with the terms described in the General Disclosure Package and the Prospectus.
 
(w) Merger Agreement  The Merger Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery of the Merger Agreement by the other parties thereto) constitutes a valid and legally binding obligation of the same, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
Authorization of
.
 
(x)
   
Investment Company Act
.  The Company is not and, after giving effect to the offering and sale of the Offered Securities and the application of the proceeds thereof as described in the General Disclosure Package, will not be an "investment company" as defined in the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (the "").
Investment Company Act
 
(y)
  
No Unlawful Payments.
To the knowledge of the Company, (i) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and except as disclosed in the General Disclosure
 
Package, it is in compliance in all material respects with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "") and any other United States and foreign statute or other law, ordinance, rule or regulation concerning corrupting payments (""), (ii) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, since January 1, 2008 and except as disclosed in the General Disclosure Package, the Company has not been investigated by any government or any arbitrator, tribunal or court of competent jurisdiction, administrative agency or commission or other governmental or quasi-governmental authority or instrumentality (in each case whether Federal, state, local, foreign, international or multinational) (each, a "") with respect to, or been given notice by a Governmental Entity of, any violation by the Company of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other Corruption Laws and (iii) the Company and its subsidiaries have an operational Foreign Corrupt Practices Act/anticorruption compliance program that includes, at a minimum, policies, procedures and training intended to enhance awareness of and compliance by the Company or such subsidiary with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any other applicable Corruption Laws.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
Corruption Laws
Governmental Entity
 
(z) . The operations of the Company and its subsidiaries are and have been conducted at all times and in all material respects in compliance with applicable financial recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the Currency and Foreign Transactions Reporting Act of 1970, as amended, the money laundering statutes of all jurisdictions to which the Company is subject, the rules and regulations thereunder and any related or similar rules, regulations or guidelines, issued, administered or enforced by any governmental agency in any such jurisdiction (collectively, the "") and no action, suit or proceeding by or before any court or governmental agency, authority or body or any arbitrator involving the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to the Money Laundering Laws is pending or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened.
Compliance with Money Laundering Laws
Money Laundering Laws
 
(aa) . None of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or, to the knowledge of the Company, any director, officer, employee or affiliate of the Company or any of its subsidiaries is currently (i) a specially designated national or other blocked person ("") under the regulations administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury ("") or (ii) is organized, located or resident in a country or territory that is the subject of OFAC-administered sanctions, including, without limitation, Burma/Myanmar, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and Syria ((i) and (ii) jointly, ""); and the Company will not, directly or to the Company's knowledge, indirectly, use the proceeds of the offering of the Offered Securities, or lend, contribute or otherwise make available such proceeds to any subsidiary, joint venture partner or other person or entity, for the purpose of financing the activities of any person or entity that, at the time of such funding, is a Sanctions Target;
Compliance with OFAC
SDN
OFAC
Sanctions Targets
it being understood that the reference to "directly" means in the case of the use of the proceeds of the offering of the Offered Securities (i) as consideration for the Merger, payment to the exchange agent for the Merger and (ii) as the special redemption payment in the event of a mandatory redemption of the Notes, payment to The Depository Trust Company.
 
3.  .  On the basis of the representations, warranties and agreements and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Company agrees to sell to the several Underwriters, and each of the Underwriters agrees, severally and not jointly, to purchase from the Company, at a purchase price of 99.017% of the principal amount of the 2015 Notes, 99.087% of the principal amount of the 2020 Notes and 98.209% of the principal amount of the 2040 Notes plus, in each case, accrued interest from September 7, 2010 to the Closing Date (as hereinafter defined) the respective principal amounts of Offered Securities set forth opposite the names of the Underwriters in Schedule A hereto.
Purchase, Sale and Delivery of Offered Securities
 
The Company will deliver the Offered Securities to or as instructed by the Representatives for the accounts of the several Underwriters in a form reasonably acceptable to the Representatives against payment of the purchase price by the Underwriters in Federal (same day) funds by wire transfer to an account at a bank acceptable to the Representatives at the office of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, 450 Lexington Avenue, New York, NY 10017, at 10:00 A.M., New York time, on September 10, 2010, or at such other time not later than seven full business days thereafter as the Representatives and the Company determine, such time being herein referred to as the "". For purposes of Rule 15c6-1 under the Exchange Act, the Closing Date (if later than the otherwise applicable settlement date) shall be the settlement date for payment of funds and delivery of securities for all the Offered Securities sold pursuant to the offering. The Offered Securities so to be delivered or evidence of their issuance will be made
Closing Date
 
available for inspection at the above office of Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP at least 24 hours prior to the Closing Date.
 
4.  .  It is understood that the several Underwriters propose to offer the Offered Securities for sale to the public as set forth in the Final Prospectus.
Offering by Underwriters
 
5.  . The Company agrees with the several Underwriters that:
Certain Agreements of the Company
 
(a)
  
Filing of Prospectuses. 
The Company has filed or will file each Statutory Prospectus (including the Final Prospectus) pursuant to and in accordance with Rule 424(b)(2) (or, if applicable and consented to by the Representatives, subparagraph (5)) not later than the second business day following the earlier of the date it is first used or the execution and delivery of this Agreement.  The Company has complied and will comply in all material respects with Rule 433.
 
(b)
  
Filing of Amendments; Response to Commission Requests
.  The Company will promptly advise the Representatives of any proposal to amend or supplement the Registration Statement or any Statutory Prospectus at any time and will offer the Representatives a reasonable opportunity to comment on any such amendment or supplement; and the Company will also advise the Representatives promptly of (i) the filing of any such amendment or supplement, (ii) any request by the Commission or its staff for any amendment to the Registration Statement, for any supplement to any Statutory Prospectus or for any additional information, (iii) the institution by the Commission of any stop order proceedings in respect of the Registration Statement or the threatening of any proceeding for that purpose, and (iv) the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Offered Securities in any jurisdiction or the institution or threatening of any proceedings for such purpose.  The Company will use its commercially reasonable efforts to prevent the issuance of any such stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the suspension of any such qualification where such lack of qualification would have a material adverse impact on the offering of Offered Securities contemplated hereby and, if issued, to obtain as soon as possible the withdrawal thereof.
 
(c)
  
Continued Compliance with Securities Laws
.  If, at any time on or prior to the completion of the public offer and sale of the Offered Securities when a prospectus relating to the Offered Securities is (or but for the exemption in Rule 172 would be) required to be delivered under the Act by any Underwriter or dealer, any event occurs as a result of which the Final Prospectus as then amended or supplemented would include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or if it is necessary at any time to amend the Registration Statement or supplement the Final Prospectus to comply with the Act, the Company will promptly notify the Representatives of such event and will promptly prepare and file with the Commission and furnish, at its own expense, to the Underwriters and the dealers and any other dealers upon request of the Representatives, an amendment or supplement which will correct such statement or omission or an amendment which will effect such compliance; provided that any such amendment or supplement required to be prepared after 90 days following the Closing Date shall be at the expense of the Underwriters. Neither the Representatives' consent to, nor the Underwriters' delivery of, any such amendment or supplement shall constitute a waiver of any of the conditions set forth in Section 7 hereof.
 
(d)
  
Rule 158. 
As soon as practicable, but not later than 16 months, after the date of this Agreement, the Company will make generally available to its securityholders an earnings statement covering a period of at least 12 months beginning after the date of this Agreement and satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Act and Rule 158.
 
(e)
  
Furnishing of Prospectuses
.  The Company will furnish to the Representatives copies of the Registration Statement, including all exhibits, any Statutory Prospectus, the Final Prospectus and all amendments and supplements to such documents, in each case as soon as available and in such quantities as the Representatives reasonably request during such period of time after the first date of the public offering of the Offered Securities as is required by law to be delivered (or required to be delivered but for
 
Rule 172 under the Act) by any Underwriter.  The Company will pay the expenses of printing and distributing to the Underwriters all such documents.
 
(f)    .  The Company will arrange for the qualification of the Offered Securities for sale and the determination of their eligibility for investment under the laws of such jurisdictions as the Representatives designate and will continue such qualifications in effect so long as required for the distribution; provided that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or other entity or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to so qualify, (ii) file any general consent to service of process in any such jurisdiction or (iii) subject itself to taxation in any such jurisdiction if it is not otherwise so subject.
Blue Sky Qualifications
 
(g)   .  For so long as the Offered Securities remain outstanding, the Company will furnish to the Representatives and, upon request, to each of the other Underwriters, as soon as practicable after the end of each fiscal year, a copy of its annual report to stockholders for such year; and the Company will furnish to the Representatives (i) as soon as available, a copy of each report and any definitive proxy statement of the Company filed with the Commission under the Exchange Act or mailed to stockholders, and (ii) from time to time, such other information concerning the Company as the Representatives may reasonably request.  However, so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of either Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is timely filing reports with the Commission on its Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval system (""), it is not required to furnish such reports or statements to the Underwriters.
Reporting Requirements
EDGAR
 
(h)   .  The Company will pay all expenses incident to the performance of its obligations under this Agreement, including but not limited to any filing fees and other expenses incurred in connection with qualification of the Offered Securities for sale under the blue sky laws of such U.S. jurisdictions as the Representatives designate (including fees and disbursements of counsel to the Underwriters associated with such qualification) and the preparation and printing of memoranda relating thereto, any fees charged by investment rating agencies for the rating of the Offered Securities, costs and expenses relating to investor presentations or any "road show" in connection with the offering and sale of the Offered Securities including, without limitation, any travel expenses of the Company's officers and employees and any other expenses of the Company including the chartering of airplanes, fees and expenses incident to listing the Offered Securities on the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, NASDAQ Stock Market and other national and foreign exchanges, fees and expenses in connection with the registration of the Offered Securities under the Exchange Act, and expenses incurred in distributing preliminary prospectuses and the Final Prospectus (including any amendments and supplements thereto) to the Underwriters and for expenses incurred for preparing, printing and distributing any Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses to investors or prospective investors. It is understood, however, that, except as provided in this Agreement, the Underwriters will pay all of their costs and expenses, including fees and expenses of counsel to the Underwriters, transfer taxes payable on resale of the Offered Securities by them and any advertising expenses connected with any offers they make.
Payment of Expenses
 
(i)    .  The Company will use the net proceeds received in connection with this offering in the manner described in the "Use of Proceeds" section of the General Disclosure Package.
Use of Proceeds
 
(j)    .  The Company will not take, directly or indirectly, any action designed to or that would constitute or that might reasonably be expected to cause or result in, stabilization or manipulation of the price of any securities of the Company to facilitate the sale or resale of the Offered Securities.
Absence of Manipulation
 
(k)   The Company will not offer, sell, contract to sell, pledge or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, or file with the Commission a registration statement under the Act relating to United States dollar-denominated debt securities issued or guaranteed by the Company and having a maturity of more than one year from the date of issue, or publicly disclose the intention to make any such offer, sale, pledge, disposition or filing, without the prior written consent of the Representatives for a period beginning on the date hereof and ending on the Closing Date.
Restriction on Sale of Securities. 
 
6.  .  (a) .  The Company represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Representatives, and each Underwriter represents and agrees that, unless it obtains the prior consent of the Company and the Representatives, it has not made and will not make any offer relating to the Offered Securities that would constitute an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or that would otherwise constitute a "free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 405, required to be filed with the Commission.  Any such free writing prospectus consented to by the Company and the Representatives is hereinafter referred to as a "."  The Company represents that it has treated and agrees that it will treat each Permitted Free Writing Prospectus as an "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Rule 433, and has complied and will comply in all material respects with the requirements of Rules 164 and 433 applicable to any Permitted Free Writing Prospectus, including timely Commission filing where required, legending and record keeping.
Free Writing Prospectuses
Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses
Permitted Free Writing Prospectus
 
(b)  .  The Company will prepare a final term sheet relating to the Offered Securities, containing only information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities and otherwise in a form consented to by the Representatives, and will file such final term sheet within the period required by Rule 433(d)(5)(ii) following the date such final terms have been established for all classes of the offering of the Offered Securities.  Any such final term sheet is an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and a Permitted Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.  The Company also consents to the use by any Underwriter of a free writing prospectus that contains only (i)(x) information describing the preliminary terms of the Offered Securities or their offering or (y) information that describes the final terms of the Offered Securities or their offering and that is included in the final term sheet of the Company contemplated in the first sentence of this subsection or (ii) other information that is not "issuer information," as defined in Rule 433, it being understood that any such free writing prospectus referred to in clause (i) or (ii) above shall not be an Issuer Free Writing Prospectus for purposes of this Agreement.
Term Sheets
 
7.  . The obligations of the several Underwriters to purchase and pay for the Offered Securities on the Closing Date will be subject to the accuracy of the representations and warranties of the Company herein (as though made on the Closing Date), to the accuracy of the statements of Company officers made pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the performance by the Company of its obligations hereunder and to the following additional conditions precedent:
Conditions of the Obligations of the Underwriters
 
(a)  .  The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants with respect to the Company within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Schedule C-1 hereto with respect to the Company (except that, in any letter dated the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Schedule C-1 hereto shall be a date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date).
Aon Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
(b)  .  The Representatives shall have received letters, dated, respectively, the date hereof and the Closing Date, of Ernst & Young LLP confirming that they are a registered public accounting firm and independent public accountants with respect to Hewitt within the meaning of the Securities Laws and substantially in the form of Schedule C-2 hereto with respect to Hewitt (except that, in any letter dated the Closing Date, the specified date referred to in Schedule C-2 hereto shall be a date no more than three days prior to the Closing Date).
Hewitt Accountants' Comfort Letter
 
(c)  The Final Prospectus shall have been filed with the Commission in accordance with the Rules and Regulations and Section 5(a) hereof. No stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or of any part thereof shall have been issued and no proceedings for that purpose shall have been instituted or, to the knowledge of the Company or any Underwriter, shall be contemplated by the Commission.
Filing of Prospectus. 
 
(d)  .  Subsequent to the execution and delivery of this Agreement, there shall not have occurred (i) any change, or any development or event involving a prospective change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of either (A) the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole or (B) the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole after giving pro forma effect to the Merger which, in the judgment of the Representatives, is material and adverse and
No Material Adverse Change
 
makes it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities; (ii) any downgrading in the rating of any debt securities or preferred stock of the Company by any "nationally recognized statistical rating organization" (as defined for purposes of Rule 436(g)), or any public announcement that any such organization has under surveillance or review its rating of any debt securities or preferred stock of the Company (other than an announcement with positive implications of a possible upgrading, and no implication of a possible downgrading, of such rating) or any announcement that the Company has been placed on negative outlook; (iii)  any change in U.S. or international financial, political or economic conditions or currency exchange rates or exchange controls the effect of which is such as to make it, in the judgment of the Representatives, impractical to market or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities, whether in the primary market or in respect of dealings in the secondary market; (iv) any suspension or material limitation of trading in securities generally on the New York Stock Exchange, or any setting of minimum or maximum prices for trading on such exchange; (v) any suspension of trading of any securities of the Company on any exchange or in the over-the-counter market; (vi) any banking moratorium declared by any U.S. federal or New York authorities; (vii) any major disruption of settlements of securities, payment, or clearance services in the United States or any other country where such securities are listed or (viii) any attack on, outbreak or escalation of hostilities or act of terrorism involving the United States, any declaration of war by Congress or any other national or international calamity or emergency if, in the judgment of the Representatives, the effect of any such attack, outbreak, escalation, act, declaration, calamity or emergency is such as to make it impractical or inadvisable to market the Offered Securities or to enforce contracts for the sale of the Offered Securities.
 
(e)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Peter Lieb, General Counsel of the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Schedule D hereto.
Opinion of the General Counsel of Company
 
(f)  .  The Representatives shall have received an opinion, dated the Closing Date, of Sidley Austin LLP, counsel for the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Representatives, to the effect set forth in Schedule E hereto.
Opinion of Counsel for Company
 
(g)  The Representatives shall have received from Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP, counsel for the Underwriters, such opinion or opinions, dated the Closing Date, with respect to such matters as the Representatives may reasonably require, and the Company shall have furnished to such counsel such documents as they request for the purpose of enabling them to pass upon such matters.
Opinion of Counsel for Underwriters. 
 
(h)  .  The Representatives shall have received a certificate, dated the Closing Date, of an executive officer of the Company and a principal financial or accounting officer of the Company in which such officers shall state that: the representations and warranties of the Company in clauses (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (j), (k), (m), (p), (q), (v), (w), (x) and (aa) of Section 2 of this Agreement are true and correct in all material respects; the representations and warranties of the Company in clauses (b), (g), (h), (i), (l), (n), (o), (r), (s), (t), (u), (y) and (z) of Section 2 of this Agreement are true and correct; the Company has complied in all material respects with all agreements and satisfied all conditions on its part to be performed or satisfied hereunder at or prior to the Closing Date; no stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement has been issued and no proceedings for that purpose have been instituted or, to the best of their knowledge and after reasonable investigation, are contemplated by the Commission; and, subsequent to the dates of the most recent financial statements in the General Disclosure Package, there has been no material adverse change, nor any development or event involving a prospective material adverse change, in the condition (financial or otherwise), results of operations, business or properties of the Company and its subsidiaries taken as a whole except as set forth in the General Disclosure Package or as described in such certificate.
Officer's Certificate
 
The Company will furnish the Representatives with such conformed copies of such opinions, certificates, letters and documents as the Representatives reasonably request.  The Representatives may in their sole discretion waive on behalf of the Underwriters compliance with any conditions to the obligations of the Underwriters hereunder.
 
8.  .  (a)  .  The Company will indemnify and hold harmless each Underwriter, its partners, members, directors, officers, employees, agents, affiliates and each
Indemnification and Contribution
Indemnification of Underwriters
 
person, if any, who controls such Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any and all losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, to which such Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, and will reimburse each Indemnified Party for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, and in connection with the enforcement of this provision with respect to any of the above as such expenses are incurred; provided, however, that the Company will not be liable in any such case to the extent that any such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon an untrue statement or alleged untrue statement in or omission or alleged omission from (i) that part of the Registration Statement that constitutes the Form T-1 of the Trustee under the Trust Indenture Act and (ii) any of such documents in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by any Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the information described as such in subsection (b) below.
Indemnified Party
 
(b)  .  Each Underwriter will severally and not jointly indemnify and hold harmless the Company, each of its directors and each of its officers who signs a Registration Statement and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the Act or Section 20 of the Exchange Act (each, an ""), against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities to which such Underwriter Indemnified Party may become subject, under the Act, the Exchange Act, other Federal or state statutory law or regulation or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of any material fact contained in any part of the Registration Statement at any time, any Statutory Prospectus as of any time, the Final Prospectus, or any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or the alleged omission of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, in each case to the extent, but only to the extent, that such untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Underwriter through the Representatives specifically for use therein, and will reimburse any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such Underwriter Indemnified Party in connection with investigating or defending against any such loss, claim, damage, liability, action, litigation, investigation or proceeding whatsoever (whether or not such Underwriter Indemnified Party is a party thereto), whether threatened or commenced, based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission as such expenses are incurred, it being understood and agreed that the only such information furnished by any Underwriter consists of the following information in the General Disclosure Package and the Final Prospectus furnished on behalf of each Underwriter: the concession and reallowance figures appearing in the third paragraph under the caption "Underwriting" and the description of stabilizing transactions, over-allotment transactions, syndicate covering transactions and penalty bids appearing in the eighth paragraph under the caption "Underwriting."
Indemnification of Company
Underwriter Indemnified Party
 
(c)  .  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section of notice of the commencement of any action, such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under subsection (a) or (b) above, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party in such action), and after notice from the indemnifying party
Actions against Parties; Notification
 
to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof, the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section for any legal or other expenses subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof other than reasonable costs of investigation.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action and (ii) does not include a statement as to, or an admission of, fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of an indemnified party.
 
(d)  .  If the indemnification provided for in this Section is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsection (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other from the offering of the Offered Securities or (ii) if the allocation provided by clause (i) above is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative benefits received by the Company on the one hand and the Underwriters on the other shall be deemed to be in the same proportion as the total net proceeds from the offering (before deducting expenses) received by the Company bear to the total underwriting discounts and commissions received by the Underwriters. The relative fault shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company or the Underwriters and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such untrue statement or omission. The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection (d), no Underwriter shall be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the total price at which the Securities underwritten by it and distributed to the public were offered to the public exceeds the amount of any damages which such Underwriter has otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. The Underwriters' obligations in this subsection (d) to contribute are several in proportion to their respective underwriting obligations and not joint.  The Company and the Underwriters agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 8(d) were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Underwriters were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 8(d).
Contribution
 
9.  .  If any Underwriter or Underwriters default in their obligations to purchase 2015 Notes, 2020 Notes and/or 2040 Notes hereunder on the Closing Date and the aggregate principal amount of the applicable series of notes that such defaulting Underwriter or Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase does not exceed 10% of the total principal amount of such series of notes that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date, the Representatives may make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the purchase of such notes by other persons, including any of the Underwriters, but if no such arrangements are made by the Closing Date, the non-defaulting Underwriters shall be obligated severally, in proportion to their respective commitments hereunder, to purchase the notes that such defaulting Underwriters agreed but failed to purchase on the Closing Date. If any Underwriter or Underwriters so default and the aggregate principal amount of 2015 Notes, 2020 Notes and/or 2040 Notes with respect to which such default or defaults occur exceeds 10% of the total principal amount of such series of notes that the Underwriters are obligated to purchase on the Closing Date and arrangements satisfactory to the Representatives and the Company for the purchase of such notes by other persons are not made within 36 hours after such default, this Agreement will terminate without liability on the part of any non-defaulting Underwriter or the Company, except as provided in Section 10. As used in this Agreement, the term "Underwriter" includes any person substituted for an Underwriter under this Section. Nothing herein will relieve a defaulting Underwriter from liability for its default.
Default of Underwriters
 
10. .  The respective indemnities, agreements, representations, warranties and other statements of the Company or its officers and of the several Underwriters set forth in or made pursuant to this Agreement will remain in full force and effect, regardless of any investigation, or statement as to the results thereof, made by or on behalf of any Underwriter, the Company or any of their respective representatives, officers or directors or any controlling person, and will survive delivery of and payment for the Offered Securities. If the purchase of the Offered Securities by the Underwriters is not consummated for any reason other than solely because of the termination of this Agreement pursuant to Sections 7(d)(iii), 7(d)(iv), 7(d)(vi), 7(d)(vii), 7(d)(viii) and 9 hereof, the Company will reimburse the Underwriters for all out-of-pocket expenses (including fees and disbursements of counsel) reasonably incurred by them in connection with the offering of the Offered Securities, and the respective obligations of the Company and the Underwriters pursuant to Section 8 hereof shall remain in effect.  In addition, if any Offered Securities have been purchased hereunder, the representations and warranties in Section 2 and all obligations under Section 5 shall also remain in effect.
Survival of Certain Representations and Obligations
 
11. . All communications hereunder will be in writing and, if sent to the Underwriters, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to the Representatives, c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10010-3629, Attention:  LCD-IBD, or, if sent to the Company, will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to it at Aon Corporation, 200 East Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: Executive Vice President and General Counsel; provided, however, that any notice to an Underwriter pursuant to Section 8 will be mailed, delivered or telegraphed and confirmed to such Underwriter.
Notices
 
12.  . This Agreement will inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective successors and the officers and directors and controlling persons referred to in Section 8, and no other person will have any right or obligation hereunder.
Successors
 
13. .  The Representatives will act for the several Underwriters in connection with this financing, and any action under this Agreement taken by the Representatives jointly will be binding upon all the Underwriters.
Representation of Underwriters
 
14.  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same Agreement.
Counterparts
 
15.  .  The headings herein are included for convenience of reference only and are not intended to be part of, or to affect the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement.
Headings
 
16.The Company acknowledges and agrees that:
  Absence of Fiduciary Relationship. 
 
(a)           .  The Representatives have been retained solely to act as underwriters in connection with the sale of Offered Securities and that no fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship between the Company and the Representatives has been created in respect of any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or the Final Prospectus, irrespective of whether the Representatives have advised or is advising the Company on other matters;
No Other Relationship
 
(b)           .  The price of the Offered Securities set forth in this Agreement was established by the Company following discussions and arms-length negotiations with the Representatives and the Company is capable of evaluating and understanding and understands and accepts the terms, risks and conditions of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement;
Arms' Length Negotiations
 
(c)           .  The Company has been advised that the Representatives and their affiliates are engaged in a broad range of transactions which may involve interests that differ from those of the Company and that the Representatives have no obligation to disclose such interests and transactions to the Company by virtue of any fiduciary, advisory or agency relationship; and
Absence of Obligation to Disclose
 
(d)           .  The Company waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any claims it may have against the Representatives for breach of fiduciary duty or alleged breach of fiduciary duty and agrees that the Representatives shall have no liability (whether direct or indirect) to the Company in respect of such a fiduciary duty
Waiver
 
claim or to any person asserting a fiduciary duty claim on behalf of or in right of the Company, including stockholders, employees or creditors of the Company.
 
17.  . This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.
Applicable Law
 
The Company and the Underwriters hereby submit to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby.  The Company and the Underwriters irrevocably and unconditionally waive any objection to the laying of venue of any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby in Federal and state courts in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York and irrevocably and unconditionally waives and agrees not to plead or claim in any such court that any such suit or proceeding in any such court has been brought in an inconvenient forum.
If the foregoing is in accordance with the Representatives' understanding of our agreement, kindly sign and return to the Company one of the counterparts hereof, whereupon it will become a binding agreement between the Company and the several Underwriters in accordance with its terms.
 
 
 
The foregoing Underwriting Agreement is hereby confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.
    
General Use Free Writing Prospectus (included in the General Disclosure Package)
 
"General Use Issuer Free Writing Prospectus" means:
 
The final term sheet, dated September 7, 2010, a copy of which is attached hereto as Annex I.
 
2.
    
Other Information Included in the General Disclosure Package
 
The following information is also included in the General Disclosure Package:
 
None
 
 
ANNEX I
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
Provisions of Sections 310 through 318(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and the within Indenture between Aon Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, Trustee:
 
 
* This Cross-Reference Sheet is not part of the Indenture.
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of the 10
th
 day of September between Aon Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter sometimes called the "Company") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, National Association, a national banking association duly incorporated, and existing under the laws of the United States of America (hereinafter sometimes called the "Trustee", which term shall include any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Article Seven).
 
WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes securities (hereinafter called the "Securities" or, in the singular, "Security") evidencing its unsecured indebtedness and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of the Securities in one or more series, unlimited as to principal amount, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such time or times and to have such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided; and
 
WHEREAS, the Company represents that all acts and things necessary to present a valid and binding indenture and agreement according to its terms, have been done and performed, and the execution of this Indenture has in all respects been duly authorized, and the Company, in the exercise of legal rights and power in it vested, is executing this Indenture;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to declare the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are authenticated, issued, and received, and in consideration of the premises, of the purchase and acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof, the Company covenants and agrees with the Trustee, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Securities, as follows:
 
Section 1.01.        Definitions
.  The terms defined in this Section (except as herein otherwise expressly, provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section.  All other terms used in this Indenture which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shall have the meanings (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and in said Securities Act as in force at the date of this Indenture as originally executed.
 
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS
 
The term "Additional Amounts" shall mean any additional amounts which are required by a Security or by or pursuant to a supplemental indenture or Board Resolution under circumstances specified therein, to be paid by the Company in respect of certain taxes, assessments or governmental charges imposed on certain Holders of Securities and which are owing to such Holders of Securities.
AUTHORIZED NEWSPAPER
 
The term "Authorized Newspaper" shall mean a newspaper in an official language of the country of publication of general circulation in the place in connection with which the term is used.  If it shall be impractical in the opinion of the Trustee to make any publication of any notice required hereby in an Authorized Newspaper, any publication or other notice in lieu thereof which is made or given with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient publication of such notice.
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 
The term "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company, the Executive Committee of the Company or any other committee duly authorized to exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors with respect to this Indenture or any Security.
 
BOARD RESOLUTION
 
The term "Board Resolution" shall mean a resolution certified by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by, or pursuant to the authority of, the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
BUSINESS DAY
 
The term "Business Day" shall mean, with respect to any Security, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) that in the city (or in any of the cities, if more than one) in which amounts are payable, as specified on the face of the form of such Security, is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
 
CLOSING PRICE
 
The term "Closing Price" of the Common Stock shall mean the last reported sale price of such stock as shown on the Composite Tape of the NYSE (or, if such stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock is listed or admitted to trading), or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on the NYSE (or, if such stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, on the principal national securities exchange on which such stock is listed or admitted to trading), or, if it is not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System (NASDAQ), or if such stock is not so reported, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by any member of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc., selected from time to time by the Company for that purpose.
 
COMMON DEPOSITARY
 
The term "Common Depositary" shall have the meaning specified in Section 2.06.
COMMON STOCK
 
The term "Common Stock" shall mean the class of Common Stock, par value $1.00 per share, of the Company authorized at the date of this Indenture as originally signed, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Common Stock, and in any such case including any shares thereof authorized after the date of this Indenture, and any other shares of stock of the Company which do not have any priority in the payment of dividends or upon liquidation over any other class of stock.
 
COMPANY
 
The term "Company" shall mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor corporation shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor corporation.
 
COMPANY ORDER
 
The term "Company Order" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.
 
CONVERSION AGENT
 
The term "Conversion Agent" shall mean any Person authorized by the Company to receive Securities to be converted into Common Stock on behalf of the Company. The Company initially authorizes the Trustee to act as Conversion Agent for the Securities on its behalf. The Company may at any time from time to time authorize one or more Persons to act as Conversion Agent in addition to or in place of the Trustee with respect to any series of Securities issued under this Indenture.
 
CONVERSION PRICE
 
The term "Conversion Price" shall mean, with respect to any series of Securities which are convertible into Common Stock, the price per share of Common Stock at which the Securities of such series are so convertible as set forth in the Board Resolution with respect to such series (or in any supplemental indenture entered into pursuant to Section 10.01(g) with respect to such series), as the same may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 14.03 (or such supplemental indenture).
 
CORPORATE TRUST OFFICE
 
The term "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the dated hereof is located at 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602 Attention:  Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor
 
Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
COUPON
 
The term "coupon" shall mean any interest coupon appertaining to a Security.
 
COUPON SECURITY
 
The term "Coupon Security" shall mean any Security authenticated and delivered with one or more coupons appertaining thereto.
 
COVENANT DEFEASANCE
 
The term "covenant defeasance" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.03.
 
CURRENT MARKET PRICE
 
The term "Current Market Price" on any date shall mean the average of the daily Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for any thirty (30) consecutive Trading Days selected by the Company prior to the date in question, which thirty (30) consecutive Trading Day period shall not commence more than forty-five (45) Trading Days prior to the day in question; provided that with respect to Section 14.03(c), the "Current Market Price" of the Common Stock shall mean the average of the daily Closing Prices per share of Common Stock for the five (5) consecutive Trading Days ending on the date of the distribution referred to in Section 14.03(c) (or if such date shall not be a Trading Day, on the Trading Day immediately preceding such date).
 
DEFEASANCE
 
The term "defeasance" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
 
EVENT OF DEFAULT
 
The term "Event of Default" shall mean any event specified as such in Section 6.01.
 
EXCHANGE ACT
 
The term "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
 
GOVERNMENT OBLIGATION
 
The term "Government Obligation" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
HOLDER
 
The terms "Holder", "Holder of Securities", "Securityholder" or other similar terms, shall mean (a) in the case of any Registered Security, the person in whose name at the time such Security is registered on the registration books kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof, and (b) in the case of any Unregistered Security, the bearer of such Security.
 
INDENTURE
 
The term "Indenture" shall mean this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof.
 
INTEREST
 
The term "Interest" shall mean, when used with respect to non-interest bearing Securities, interest payable on or after maturity.
 
INTEREST PAYMENT DATE
 
The term "Interest Payment Date," when used with respect to any Security, means the stated maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
 
NYSE
 
The term "NYSE" shall mean the New York Stock Exchange.
 
OFFICERS' CERTIFICATE
 
The term "Officers' Certificate" shall mean a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary.
 
OPINION OF COUNSEL
 
The term "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean an opinion in writing, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company, or who may be other counsel.
 
ORIGINAL ISSUE DISCOUNT SECURITIES
 
The term "Original Issue Discount Securities" shall mean any Securities which are initially sold at a discount from the principal amount thereof and which provide upon Event of Default for declaration of an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon acceleration thereof.
OUTSTANDING
 
The term "Outstanding", when used with reference to Securities, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 and Section 8.04, mean, as of any particular time, all Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except
 
(a)           Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(b)           Securities, or portions thereof, for the payment or redemption of which moneys in the necessary amount shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own paying agent), provided, that if such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as provided in Article Three, or provisions satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice;
 
(c)           Securities in lieu of and in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07, unless proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that any such Securities are held by bona fide Holders in due course in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; and
 
(d)           Securities which have been defeased pursuant to Section 13.02.
 
PERSON
 
The term "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
 
PLACE OF PAYMENT
 
The term "Place of Payment," when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, designated and maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 4.02 and such other place or places where the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest (and Additional Amounts, if any) on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Section 2.01.
 
REGISTERED SECURITY
 
The term "Registered Security" shall mean any Security registered on the Security registration books of the Company.
REGULAR RECORD DATE
 
The term "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Sections 2.01 and 2.04.
 
RESPONSIBLE OFFICER
 
The term "responsible officer" when used with respect to the Trustee shall mean any vice president, assistant treasurer, trust officer, assistant vice president, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
 
SECURITY REGISTER AND SECURITY REGISTRAR
 
The term "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" shall have the respective meanings specified in Section 2.05.
 
TRADING DAY
 
The term "Trading Day" shall mean, with respect to the Common Stock, so long as the Common Stock is listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, a day on which the NYSE is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Common Stock is not listed or admitted to trading on the NYSE, a day on which the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed is open for the transaction of business, or, if the Common Stock is not so listed or admitted for trading on any national securities exchange, a day on which NASDAQ is open for the transaction of business.
 
TRUST INDENTURE ACT OF 1939
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.03, the term "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date of this Indenture as originally executed.
 
UNITED STATES
 
The term "United States" shall mean the United States of America, its territories, possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
 
UNREGISTERED SECURITY
 
The term "Unregistered Security" shall mean any Security other than a Registered Security.
U.S.  DEPOSITARY
 
The term "U.S.  Depositary" shall mean, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more permanent global Securities, the Person designated as U.S.  Depositary by the Company pursuant to Section 2.01, which must be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act, as amended, until a successor U.S.  Depositary shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "U.S.  Depositary" shall mean or include each Person who is then a U.S.  Depositary hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "U.S.  Depositary" shall mean the U.S.  Depositary with respect to the Securities of that series.
 
U.S.  DOLLAR
 
The term "U.S.  Dollar" or "$" means a dollar or other equivalent unit in such coin or currency of the United States as at the time shall be legal tender for the payment of public and private debts.
 
U.S.  PERSON
 
The term "U.S.  person" shall mean a citizen or resident of the United States, a corporation, partnership or other entity created or organized in or under the laws of the United States or any political subdivision thereof or an estate or trust the income of which is subject to United States Federal income tax regardless of its source.
 
Section 2.01.        Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
.  The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
The Securities may be issued in one or more series.  There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
 
(1)           the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
(2)           any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 3.02 or 10.04);
 
(3)           whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in whole or in part in permanent global form with or without coupons and, if so, (a) whether beneficial owners of interests in any such permanent global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination
 
and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.05, and (b) the name of the Common Depositary or the U.S.  Depositary, as the case may be, with respect to any global Security;
(4)           the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
 
(5)           the rate or rates, which may be fixed or variable, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, and if the rate is variable, the manner of calculation thereof, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and, in the case of Registered Securities the Regular Record Date for the determination of Holders of such Securities to whom interest is payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
(6)           the place or places (in addition to such place or places specified in this Indenture) where the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(7)           the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, pursuant to any sinking fund or otherwise;
 
(8)           the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation, and, where applicable, the obligation of the Company to select the Securities to be redeemed;
 
(9)           if other than U.S.  Dollars, the currency or currencies, or units, including European Currency Units ("ECUs"), based on or related to currencies, in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and in which payments of principal of, any premium on, interest on, if any, and any other amounts payable with respect to such Securities shall or may be payable;
 
(10)         the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than $1,000 or integral multiples thereof with respect to Registered and Unregistered Securities;
 
(11)         if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01 or which the Trustee shall be entitled to claim pursuant to Section 6.02;
 
(12)         if other than Registered Securities:  whether the Securities of the series will be issuable as Registered Securities or Unregistered Securities (with or without coupons), or both; any restrictions applicable to the offer, sale or delivery of Unregistered Securities; if other than as provided for in Section 2.05, the terms upon which
 
Unregistered Securities of the series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of such series and vice versa; if other than as provided for in Section 2.05 and Section 2.06, the terms upon which Unregistered Securities shall be issued in definitive form; and, if other than as provided for in Section 4.02, the circumstances, if any, under which payment on any Unregistered Security or coupon will be made upon presentation of such Unregistered Security or coupon at an agency of the Company outside the United States or by transfer to an account in, or by mail to an address in, the United States;
(13)         whether and under what circumstances the Company will pay Additional Amounts on the Securities of the series held by a person who is not a U.S.  Person in respect of any tax, assessment or governmental charge withheld or deducted and, if so, whether the Company will have the option to redeem such Securities rather than pay such Additional Amounts;
 
(14)         if either or both of Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be inapplicable to the Securities of the series (provided that if no such inapplicability shall be specified, then both Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be applicable to the Securities of the series); and
 
(15)         any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture).
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except (i) as to denomination and (ii) that Securities of any series may be issuable as either Registered Securities or Unregistered Securities and (iii) as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution and set forth in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
 
If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at the same time as or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
 
Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, with different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, with different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, with different dates on which such interest may be payable and with different redemption dates.
 
Section 2.02.        Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
.  The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in the following form:
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
Section 2.03.
                        
Form, Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating of Securities
.  The Securities of each series and the coupons, if any, to be attached thereto, shall be in substantially the forms approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, and shall be printed, lithographed, engraved or otherwise produced in such manner as the officers executing the same may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.  Such Securities and the coupons, if any, to be attached thereto may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed, engraved or otherwise produced thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Securities may be listed, or to conform to usage.
 
Each Security and coupon shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or its Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or its President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President and by its Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer or its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, under its Corporate seal.  Such signatures may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such officers.  The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
 
Each Security and coupon bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Security, or the Security to which such coupon appertains.  At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company and, in the case of Coupon Securities, having attached thereto appropriate coupons, to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities.  If the form or terms of the Securities or coupons of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by this Section and Section 2.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be given, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 16.04 and an Opinion of Counsel stating:
(a)
                                 
if the form of such Securities or coupons has been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.01, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
 
(b)
                                
if the terms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.01, that such terms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; and
 
(c)
                                 
that each such Security and coupon, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
If such form or terms has been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and the Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
Every Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.04.
                        
Denominations; Record Date
.  The Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities or Unregistered Securities in such denominations as may be specified as contemplated in Section 2.01.  In the absence of any such specification with respect to any series, such Securities shall be issuable as Registered Securities in the denominations contemplated by Section 2.01.
 
The term "record date" as used with respect to an Interest Payment Date (except a date for payment of defaulted interest) shall mean such day or days as shall be specified in the terms of the Registered Securities of any particular series as contemplated by Section 2.01; provided, however, that in the absence of any such provisions with respect to any series, such term shall mean (a) the last day of the calendar month next preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a calendar month; or (b) the fifteenth day of a calendar month next preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the
first day of the calendar month; provided, further, that if the day which would be the record date as provided herein shall be a day on which banking institutions in the City of Chicago or the City of New York are authorized by law or required by executive order to close, then it shall mean the next preceding day which shall not be a day on which such institutions are so authorized or required to close.
 
The person in whose name any Registered Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date with respect to an Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable and Additional Amounts, if any, payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the cancellation of such Registered Security upon any transfer or exchange thereof subsequent to such Regular Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that if and to the extent the Company shall default in the payment of the interest and Additional Amounts, if any, due on such Interest Payment Date, such defaulted interest and Additional Amounts, if any, shall cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the persons in whose names Outstanding Registered Securities are registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Company to the Holders of Securities of the series in default not less than fifteen days preceding such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
Section 2.05.
                        
Exchange and Registration of Transfer of Securities
.  Registered Securities of any series may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Registered Securities of other authorized denominations of such series.  Registered Securities to be exchanged shall be surrendered at the office or agency to be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02, and the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Registered Security or Registered Securities which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive.
 
If the Securities of any series are issued in both registered and unregistered form, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01, at the option of the Holder thereof, Unregistered Securities of any series may be exchanged for Registered Securities of such series of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of such Unregistered Securities to be exchanged at the agency of the Company that shall be maintained for such purpose in accordance with Section 4.02, with, in the case of Unregistered Securities that are Coupon Securities, all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining.  At the option of the Holder thereof, if Unregistered Securities of any series are issued in more than one authorized denomination, except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01, such Unregistered Securities may be exchanged for Unregistered Securities of such series of other authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount, upon surrender of such Unregistered Securities to be exchanged at the agency of the Company that shall be maintained for such purpose in accordance with Section 4.02 or as specified pursuant to
Section 2.01, with, in the case of Unregistered Securities that are Coupon Securities, all unmatured coupons and all matured coupons in default thereto appertaining.  Unless otherwise specified pursuant to Section 2.01, Registered Securities of any series may not be exchanged for Unregistered Securities of such series.  Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive.
 
The Company (or its designated agent (the "Security Registrar")) shall keep, at such office or agency, a Security Register (the "") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register Securities and shall register the transfer of Registered Securities as in this Article Two provided.  The Security Register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time.  At all reasonable times the Security Register shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.  Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Registered Security of a particular series at such office or agency, the Company shall execute and the Company or the Security Registrar shall register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Registered Security or Registered Securities of such series for an equal aggregate principal amount and stated maturity.
Security Register
 
Unregistered Securities (except for any temporary bearer Securities) and coupons shall be transferable by delivery.
 
All Securities presented for registration of transfer or for exchange, redemption or payment, as the case may be, shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01, any permanent global Security shall be exchangeable only as provided in this paragraph.  If the beneficial owners of interests in a permanent global Security are entitled to exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor and principal amount of another authorized form and denomination, as specified and as subject to the conditions contemplated by Section 2.01, then without unnecessary delay but in any event not later than the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, the Company shall deliver to the Trustee definitive Securities of that series in aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of such permanent global Security, executed by the Company.  On or after the earliest date on which such interests may be so exchanged, such permanent global Securities shall be surrendered from time to time by the Common Depositary or the U.S.  Depositary, as the case may be, and in accordance with instructions given to the Trustee and the Common Depositary or the U.S.  Depositary, as the case may be, as shall be specified in the Company Order with respect thereto to the Trustee, as the Company's agent for such purpose, to be exchanged, in whole or in part, for definitive Securities of the same series without charge.  The Trustee shall authenticate and make available for delivery, in exchange for each portion of such surrendered permanent global Security, a like aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series of authorized denominations and of like tenor as the portion of such permanent global Security to be exchanged which shall be in the form of the Securities of such series; provided, however, that
no such exchanges may occur during a period beginning at the opening of business fifteen days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Article III and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing.  Promptly following any such exchange in part, such permanent global Security shall be returned by the Trustee to the Common Depositary or the U.S.  Depositary, as the case may be, or such other Common Depositary or U.S.  Depositary referred to above in accordance with the instructions of the Company referred to above.  If a Security in the form specified for such series is issued in exchange for any portion of a permanent global Security after the close of business at the office or agency where such exchange occurs on any Regular Record Date and before the opening of business at such office or agency on the relevant Interest Payment Date, such interest will not be payable on such Interest Payment Date in respect of such Security in the form specified for such series, but will be payable on such Interest Payment Date only to the Person to whom interest in respect of such portion of such permanent global Security is payable in accordance with the provisions of this Indenture.
 
All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligation of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Registered Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
 
The Company shall not be required to issue, exchange or register a transfer of (a) any Registered Securities of any series for a period of fifteen days next preceding any selection of such Registered Securities of such series to be redeemed, or (b) any Security of any such series selected for redemption in whole or in part except, in the case of any such series to be redeemed in part, the portion thereof not to be so redeemed.
 
Notwithstanding anything herein or in the terms of any series of Securities to the contrary, neither the Company nor the Trustee (which shall conclusively rely on an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel provided to it as conclusive evidence of any such tax determination) shall be required to exchange any Unregistered Security for a Registered Security or vice versa if such exchange would result in adverse Federal income tax consequences to the Company (including the inability of the Company to deduct from its income, as computed for Federal income tax purposes, the interest payable on any Securities) under then applicable United States Federal income tax laws.
 
Section 2.06.
                        
Temporary Securities
.  Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Securities of such series (printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise produced).  Temporary Securities of any series shall be issuable in any authorized denominations, and in the substantial form approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution but with such omissions, insertions, substitutions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the officers executing such temporary Securities, such determination to be evidenced by such execution.  Every temporary
Security shall be executed by the Company and be authenticated by the Trustee upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities.  Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which, except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05), without unnecessary delay the Company shall execute and shall furnish definitive Securities of such series evidenced by the temporary Securities and thereupon any or all temporary Registered Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor without charge at the office or agency to be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02 and in the case of Unregistered Securities at any agency maintained by the Company for such purpose as specified pursuant to Section 2.01, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series and stated maturity of authorized denominations and in the case of such Securities that are Coupon Securities, having attached thereto the appropriate coupons.  Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.  The provisions of this Section 2.06 are subject to any restrictions or limitations on the issue and delivery of temporary Unregistered Securities of any series that may be established pursuant to Section 2.01.
 
If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein pursuant to Section 2.01, be delivered to the office of a depositary or common depositary (the "Common Depositary") for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
 
Section 2.07.
                        
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities
.  In case any temporary or definitive Security of any series or, in the case of a Coupon Security, any coupon appertaining thereto, shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company in the case of a mutilated Security or coupon shall, and in the case of a lost, stolen or destroyed Security or coupon may, in its discretion, execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series and stated maturity as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security or, in the case of a Coupon Security, a new Coupon Security of the same series as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Coupon Security or, in the case of a coupon, a new Coupon Security of the same series as the Coupon Security to which such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen or in exchange for the Coupon Security to which such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen coupon appertains, with all appurtenant coupons not destroyed, lost or stolen.  In every case the applicant for a substituted Security or coupon shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and to the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security or coupon, as the case may be, and of the ownership thereof.  The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any officer of the Company.  Upon the issuance of any substituted Security or coupon, the Company may require the payment of a sum
sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses connected therewith and in addition a further sum not exceeding ten dollars for each Security so issued in substitution.  In case any Security or coupon which has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substituted Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof except in the case of a mutilated Security or coupon) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish the Company and the Trustee with such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them harmless and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security or coupon and of the ownership thereof.
 
Every substituted Security with, in the case of any such Security that is a Coupon Security, its coupons, issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section by virtue of the fact that any Security or coupon is destroyed, lost or stolen shall, with respect to such Security or coupon, constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security or coupon shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities, and the coupons appertaining thereto, duly issued hereunder.
 
All Securities and any coupons appertaining thereto shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities and coupons appertaining thereto and shall, to the extent permitted by law, preclude any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
 
Section 2.08.
                        
Securities in Global Form
.  If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, as specified as contemplated by Section 2.01, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.01, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges.  Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.06.  Subject to the provisions of Section 2.03 and, if applicable, Section 2.06, the Trustee shall deliver and redeliver any Security in permanent global form in the manner and upon instructions given by the Person specified therein or in the applicable Company Order.
 
The provisions of Section 2.09 shall apply to any Security represented by a Security in global form if such Security was never issued and sold by the Company and the Company delivers to the Trustee the Security in global form together with written instructions (which need not be accompanied by an Opinion of Counsel) with regard to the reduction in the principal amount of Securities represented thereby.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.04, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01, payment of principal of and any premium and interest on any Security in permanent global form shall be made to the Person specified therein.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 8.03 and except as provided in the preceding paragraph, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company and the Trustee shall treat a Person as the Holder of such principal amount of Outstanding Securities represented by a permanent global Security as shall be specified in a written statement of the Holder of such permanent global Security.
 
Section 2.09.
                        
Cancellation
.  All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, exchange, registration of transfer or for credit against any sinking fund payment, and all coupons surrendered for payment, as the case may be, shall, if surrendered to the Company or any agent of the Company or of the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and promptly cancelled by it or, if surrendered to the Trustee, be cancelled by it, and no Securities or coupons shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by any of the provisions of this Indenture.  The Trustee shall dispose of cancelled Securities and coupons in its customary manner and, upon written request, deliver a certificate of such disposal to the Company or, if requested to do so by the Company, shall return such cancelled Securities and coupons to the Company.
 
Section 2.10.
                        
Computation of Interest
.  Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
Section 2.11. CUSIP Numbers.
  The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
Section 3.01.
                        
Redemption of Securities; Applicability of Article
.  Redemption of Securities of any series as permitted or required by the terms thereof shall be made in accordance with such terms and this Article; provided, however, that if any provision of any series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the provision of such series of Securities shall govern.
 
Notice date for a redemption of Securities shall mean the date on which notice of such redemption is given in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 hereof.
 
Section 3.02.
                        
Notice of Redemption; Selection of Securities
.  In case the Company shall desire to exercise the right to redeem all, or, as the case may be, any part of a series of Securities pursuant to the terms and provisions applicable to such series, it shall fix a
date for redemption and shall mail a notice of such redemption at least thirty and not more than ninety days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the Holders of the Securities and, in the case of Securities in global form, to the Common Depositary or the U.S.  Depositary, as the case may be, of such series which are Registered Securities to be redeemed as a whole or in part at their last addresses as the same appear on the Security Register.  Such mailing shall be by prepaid first class mail.  Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder shall have received such notice.  In any case, failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security of such series.
 
Notice of redemption to the Holders of Unregistered Securities to be redeemed as a whole or in part, who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee as described in Section 5.04, shall be given by mailing notice of such redemption, by first class mail, postage prepaid, at least thirty days and not more than ninety days prior to the date fixed for redemption, to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee (and, in the case of any such notice given by the Company, the Trustee shall make such information available to the Company for such purpose).  Notice of redemption to any other Holder of an Unregistered Security of such series shall be published in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, once in each of two successive calendar weeks, the first publication to be not less than thirty nor more than ninety days prior to the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder shall have received such notice.  In any case, failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security of such series.
 
Each such notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price at which such Securities are to be redeemed, the Place of Payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Securities and, in the case of Coupon Securities, of all coupons appertaining thereto maturing after the date fixed for redemption, that interest and Additional Amounts, if any, accrued to the date fixed for redemption will be paid as specified in said notice and that on and after said date interest, if any, thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue.  If less than all of the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, any notice of redemption published in an Authorized Newspaper shall specify the numbers of the Securities to be redeemed.  In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued of the same series.
 
Prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section, the Company will deposit in trust with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Company is acting as its own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 4.03) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption at the appropriate redemption price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption.  The Company will
give the Trustee notice of each redemption at least forty-five days prior to the date fixed for redemption (unless a shorter notice is acceptable to the Trustee) as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Trustee shall select, pro rata or by lot or in such other manner as it shall deem appropriate, the numbers of the Securities to be redeemed in whole or in part; provided that in case the Securities of such series have different terms and maturities, the Securities to be redeemed shall be selected by the Trustee by a method the Trustee deems appropriate.
 
Section 3.03.
                        
Payment of Securities Called for Redemption
.  If notice of redemption has been given as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities with respect to which such notice has been given shall become due and payable on the date and at the Place of Payment stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price, together with interest, if any (and Additional Amounts, if any), accrued to the date fixed for redemption, and on and after said date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of such Securities at the redemption price, together with interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, accrued to said date) interest on the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption shall cease to accrue.  On presentation and surrender of such Securities subject to redemption at said Place of Payment in said notice specified, the said Securities or the specified portions thereof shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price, together with interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, accrued thereon to the date fixed for redemption.  Interest, if any (and Additional Amounts, if any), maturing on or prior to the date fixed for redemption shall continue to be payable (but without interest thereon unless the Company shall default in payment thereof) in the case of Coupon Securities to the bearers of the coupons for such interest upon surrender thereof, and in the case of Registered Securities to the Holders thereof registered as such on the Security Register on the relevant record date subject to the terms and provisions of Section 2.04.  At the option of the Company payment may be made by check, wire transfer or other electronic means to (or to the order of) the Holders of the Securities or other persons entitled thereto against presentation and surrender of such Securities.
 
If any Coupon Security surrendered for redemption shall not be accompanied by all appurtenant coupons maturing after the date fixed for redemption, the surrender of such missing coupon or coupons may be waived by the Company and the Trustee, if there be furnished to each of them such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them harmless.
 
Upon presentation of any Security redeemed in part only (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series and stated maturity, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.
Section 4.01.
                        
Payment of Principal, Premium, Interest and Additional Amounts
.  The Company will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on each of the Securities at the place, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the terms of the Securities and in this Indenture.  The interest on Coupon Securities (together with any Additional Amounts) shall be payable only upon presentation and surrender of the several coupons for such interest installments as are evidenced thereby as they severally mature.  The interest, if any, on any temporary bearer Securities (together with any Additional Amounts) shall be paid, as to the installments of interest evidenced by coupons attached thereto, if any, only upon presentation and surrender thereof, and, as to the other installments of interest, if any, only upon presentation of such Securities for notation thereon of the payment of such interest.  The interest on Registered Securities (together with any Additional Amounts) shall be payable only to or upon the written order of the Holders thereof and at the option of the Company may be paid by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the order of such Holders at their last addresses as they appear on the Security Register for such Securities.
 
Section 4.02.
                        
Offices for Notices and Payments, etc
.  As long as any of the Securities of a series remain outstanding, the Company will designate and maintain, in the City of Chicago and the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where the Registered Securities of such series may be presented for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided, an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series or of this Indenture may be served, and an office or agency where the Securities of such series may be presented for payment.  The Company will give to the Trustee notice of the location of each such office or agency and of any change in the location thereof.  In case the Company shall fail to maintain any such office or agency in the City of Chicago and the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or shall fail to give such notice of the location or of any change in the location thereof, presentations may be made and notices and demands may be served at the corporate trust office of the Trustee in the City of Chicago and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands.
 
If Unregistered Securities of any series are Outstanding, the Company will maintain or cause the Trustee to maintain one or more agencies in a city or cities located outside the United States (including any city in which such an agency is required to be maintained under the rules of any stock exchange on which the Securities of such series are listed) where such Unregistered Securities, and coupons, if any, appertaining thereto may be presented for payment.  Except as provided pursuant to Section 2.01, no payment on any Unregistered Security or coupon will be made upon presentation of such Unregistered Security or coupon at an agency of the Company within the United States nor will any payment be made by transfer to an account in, or by mail to an address in, the United States.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, payments in U.S.  Dollars with respect to Unregistered Securities of any series and coupons appertaining thereto which are payable in U.S.  Dollars may be made at an agency of the Company maintained in the City of Chicago and the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York if the full amount of such payment in U.S.  Dollars at each agency maintained by the Company outside
the United States for payment on such Unregistered Securities is illegal or effectively precluded by exchange controls or other similar restrictions.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations to maintain an office or agency in each place of payment for Securities of any Series for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
 
The Company hereby initially designates the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee as the Security Registrar and as the office or agency of the Company, where the Securities may be presented for payment and, in the case of Registered Securities, for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of any series or of this Indenture may be served.
 
Section 4.03.
                        
Provisions as to Paying Agent
.  (a)  Whenever the Company shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section,
 
(1)
                                 
that it will comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a paying agent,
 
(2)
                                 
that it will hold sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) , interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, or coupons appertaining thereto, as the case may be, entitled thereto and will notify the Trustee of the receipt of sums to be so held,
 
(3)
                                 
that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) to make any payment of the principal of (or premium, if any), interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of such series when the same shall be due and payable, and
 
(4)
                                 
at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such paying agent.
 
(b)
                                
If the Company shall act as its own paying agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of any series set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay such principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, so becoming due.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
(c)
                                 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more paying agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) , interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, on any Securities of that series, deposit with a paying agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal (and premium, if any), or interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such paying agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(d)
                                
Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge with respect to one or more or all series of this Indenture, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by it or any paying agent hereunder as required by this Section, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained.
 
(e)
                                 
Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the provisions of Sections 12.02 and 12.03.
 
Section 4.04.
                        
Statement by Officers as to Default
.  The Company will deliver to the Trustee, on or before a date not more than four months after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture to be performed or observed by it and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature thereof of which they may have knowledge.
Section 5.01.
                        
Securityholder Lists
.  The Company covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee with respect to the Securities of each series:
 
(a)
                                 
semi-annually, not later than each Interest Payment Date (in the case of any series having semi-annual Interest Payment Dates) or not later than the dates determined pursuant to Section 2.01 (in the case of any series not having semi-annual Interest Payment Dates) a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of such series as of the Regular Record Date (or as of such other date as may be determined pursuant to Section 2.01 for such series) therefor, provided that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company, and
 
(b)
                                
at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within thirty days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of the particular series specified by the Trustee as of a date not more than fifteen days prior to the time such information is furnished; provided, however, that if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar
any such list shall exclude names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, and if and so long as all of the Securities of any series are Registered Securities, such list shall not be required to be furnished.
 
Section 5.02.
                        
Preservation and Disclosure of Lists
.  (a)  The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of each series of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 or received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.  The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
(b)
                                
In case three or more Holders of Securities (hereinafter referred to as "applicants") apply in writing to the Trustee and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants' desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities of a particular series (in which case the applicants must hold Securities of such series) or with Holders of all Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under such Securities and it is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
 
(1)
                                 
afford to such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, or
 
(2)
                                 
inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Securityholders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
 
If the Trustee shall elect not to afford to such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose name and address appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five days after such tender, the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, or would be in violation of applicable law.  Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion.  If said Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, said Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so
sustained have been met, and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holder with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
 
(c)
                                 
Each and every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under said subsection (b).
 
Section 5.03.
                        
Reports by the Company
.  The Company covenants:
 
(a)
                                 
to file with the Trustee within thirty days after the Company files the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as said Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with said Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and said Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by said Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
 
(b)
                                
to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by said Commission, such additional information, documents, and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations;
 
(c)
                                 
to transmit by mail to all the Holders of Securities of each series, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register, within thirty days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company with respect to each such series pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission; and
 
(d)
                                
If Unregistered Securities of any series are Outstanding, to file with the listing agent of the Company with respect to such series such documents and reports of the Company as may be required from time to time by the rules and regulations of any stock exchange on which such Unregistered Securities are listed.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
Section 5.04.
                        
Reports by the Trustee
.  (a)  The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.  If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each May 15th following the date of the initial issuance of Securities under this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 15th, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
 
(b)
                                
A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders of Securities of a particular series, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which the Securities of such series are listed with the Commission and with the Company.  The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when and as the Securities of any series become listed or delisted on any stock exchange.
Section 6.01.
                        
Events of Default
.  In case one or more of the following Events of Default with respect to a particular series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing:
 
(a)
                                 
default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable either at maturity, upon redemption, by declaration or otherwise; or
 
(b)
                                
default in the payment of any installment of interest, if any, or in the payment of any Additional Amount upon any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of thirty days; or
 
(c)
                                 
failure on the part of the Company duly to observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on the part of the Company in this Indenture applicable to Securities of such series for a period of ninety days after the date on which written notice of such failure, specifying such failure and requiring the Company to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder, shall have been given to the Company by the Trustee, or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding; or
 
(d)
                                
a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointing a receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company
or for any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and such decree or order shall remain unstayed and in effect for a period of ninety days; or
 
(e)
                                 
the Company shall commence a voluntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or shall consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case under any such law, or shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or for any substantial part of its property, or shall make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors; or
 
(f)
                                   
any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of such series;
 
then in each and every such case, unless the principal amount of all the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders of such Securities) may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Securities (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such lesser amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) of such series to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount) shall become and shall be immediately due and payable, any provision of this Indenture or the Securities of such series contained to the contrary notwithstanding.  The foregoing provisions, however, are subject to the conditions that if, at any time after the principal and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, of the Securities of any series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Company shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay all matured installments of interest, if any, and all Additional Amounts, if any, due upon all the Securities of such series and the principal of (and premium, if any, on) all Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such lesser amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities), which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest, if any, upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest and Additional Amounts, if any, at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Securities of such series, as the case may be (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption or acceleration of such series, as the case may be), to the date of such payment or deposit), and such amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct, and any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on Securities of that series that shall not have become due by their terms, shall have been remedied or waived, then and in every such case the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may rescind and annul such
declaration and its consequences; provided no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon.
 
In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities, as the case may be, shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of Securities, as the case may be, shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
 
Section 6.02.
                        
Payment of Securities on Default; Suit Therefor
.  The Company covenants that (1) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest, if any, on any of the Securities of any series or any Additional Amounts in payable respect of any of the Securities of any series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty days, or (2) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any of the Securities of any series, as and when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of such series or upon redemption or upon declaration or otherwise, then upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, and the coupons, if any, appertaining to such Securities, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all such Securities of such series and such coupons, for principal (and premium, if any) or interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal (and premium, if any) and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption or acceleration); and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct.
 
In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceedings to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company or other obligor upon such Securities and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or other obligor upon such Securities wherever situated the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable.
 
In case there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Company or any other obligor upon Securities of any series under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver or trustee shall have been appointed for the property of the Company or such other obligor, or in the case of any other judicial proceedings relative to the Company or such other obligor, or to the creditors or property of the Company or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the
Securities of such series shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise to the extent permitted by the court, to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series), and premium, if any, interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities of such series, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and for reimbursement of all reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct) and of the Holders of the Securities and coupons of such series allowed in any such judicial proceedings relative to the Company or other obligor upon the Securities of such series, or to the creditors or property of the Company or such other obligor, and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute all amounts received with respect to the claims of the Securityholders of such series and of the Trustee on their behalf; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the Holders of the Securities and coupons of such series to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of payments directly to the Securityholders of such series, to pay to the Trustee such amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct.
 
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Securities, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or coupons appertaining to such Securities, or the production thereof on any trial or other proceedings relative thereto, and any such action or proceedings instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities or coupons appertaining thereto in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
In case of an Event of Default hereunder the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem necessary to protect and enforce any of such rights, either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
 
Section 6.03.
                        
Application of Moneys Collected by Trustee
.  Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.02 shall be applied in the order following, at the
date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal (or premium, if any) or interest, if any, upon presentation of the several Securities and coupons in respect of which moneys have been collected, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
 
FIRST:  To the payment of reasonable costs and expenses applicable to such series of collection, reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct;
 
SECOND:  In case the principal of the Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected shall not have become due, to the payment of interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on the Securities of such series in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, specified in the Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption or acceleration), such payments to be made ratably to the persons entitled thereto, without discrimination or preference;
 
THIRD:  In case the principal of the Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon the Securities of such series for principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon overdue installments of interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption or acceleration); and in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon the Securities of such series, then to the payment of such principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, or of interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, over principal and premium, if any, or of any other Security of such series over any other Security of such series, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any; and
 
FOURTH:  Any remainder to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
 
Section 6.04.
                        
Proceedings by Securityholders
.  No Holder of any Security of any series or of any coupon appertaining thereto shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, upon or under or with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and unless also the Holders of not less than twenty-five percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made
 
written request upon the Trustee to institute such action or proceedings in its own name as trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee such indemnity reasonably satisfactory as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee for sixty days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such action or proceedings and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.06; it being understood and intended, and being expressly covenanted by the taker and Holder of every Security with every other taker and Holder and the Trustee, that no one or more Holders of Securities or coupons appertaining to such Securities shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by availing himself of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holder of Securities or coupons appertaining to such Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such Holder or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all Holders of Securities and coupons.  For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, however, the right of any Holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on such Security or coupon, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security or coupon, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.  With respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, principal shall mean such amount as shall be due and payable be specified in the terms of such Securities.
 
Section 6.05.
                        
Remedies Cumulative and Continuing
.  All powers and remedies given by this Article Six to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive, of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the Holders of Securities or coupons, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any of the Securities or coupons to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article Six or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities or coupons may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities or coupons, as the case may be.
 
Section 6.06.
                        
Direction of Proceedings
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that the action or proceedings so directed may not lawfully be taken or if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or executive committee or a trust committee of directors or
trustees and/or responsible officers shall determine that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.07.
                        
Notice of Defaults
.  The Trustee shall, within ninety days after the occurrence of a default with respect to the Securities of any series, give notice of all defaults with respect to that series known to the Trustee (i) if any Unregistered Securities of that series are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof, by publication at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of that series are then Outstanding, to all Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee as described in Section 5.04 by mailing such notice to such Holders at such addresses and (iii) to all Holders of then Outstanding Registered Securities of that series, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, unless in each case such defaults shall have been cured before the mailing or publication of such notice (the term "defaults" for the purpose of this Section being hereby defined to be the events specified in Sections 6.01(a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) and any additional events specified in the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01, not including periods of grace, if any, provided for therein, and irrespective of the giving of written notice specified in Section 6.0l(c) or in the terms of any Securities established pursuant to Section 2.01); and provided that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of or interest, if any, premium or Additional Amounts, if any, on any of the Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Securities of such series.
 
Section 6.08.
                        
Undertaking to Pay Costs
.  All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder of any series, or group of such Securityholders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent in aggregate principal amount of any Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholders for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any), interest, if any, or Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security on or after the due date expressed in such Security.
 
Section 6.09.
                        
Waiver of Past Defaults
.  The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
 
(1)
                                 
in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security of such series; or
(2)
                                 
in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Ten cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture and the Securities of such series; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 7.01.
                        
Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
.  The Trustee, except during the continuance of an Event of Default of a particular series, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture.  In case an Event of Default with respect to a particular series has occurred (which has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(a)
                                 
prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a particular series and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default with respect to such series which may have occurred:
 
(1)
                                 
the duties and obligations of the Trustees with respect to such series shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
 
(2)
                                 
in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein);
 
(b)
                                
the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or officers, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
(c)
                                 
the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of Securities pursuant to Section 6.06 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture.
 
Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be construed as requiring the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise to incur any personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
Section 7.02.
                        
Reliance on Documents, Opinions, etc
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
 
(a)
                                 
the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)
                                
any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an instrument signed in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or, if the other signatory is other than the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any Board Resolution may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company;
 
(c)
                                 
the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such Opinion of Counsel;
 
(d)
                                
the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses, and liabilities which might be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(e)
                                 
the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon or other paper or
document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney;
 
(f)
                                   
the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder;
 
(g)
                                
the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
(h)
                                
in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any indirect or consequential (including, but not limited to, loss of profit) loss or damage, irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
 
(i)
                                    
the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(j)
                                    
the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
 
(k)
                                 
the Trustee may request that the Company deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
 
Section 7.03.
                        
No Responsibility for Recitals, etc
.  The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, provided that the Trustee shall not be relieved of its duty to authenticate Securities as authorized by this Indenture.  The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
 
Section 7.04.
                        
Ownership of Securities or Coupons
.  The Trustee or any agent of the Company or of the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities or coupons with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, or an agent of the Company or of the Trustee.
Section 7.05.
                        
Moneys to Be Held in Trust
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12.04 hereof, all moneys received by the Trustee or any paying agent shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.  Neither the Trustee nor any paying agent shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it may agree in writing with the Company to pay thereon.  So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, all interest allowed on any such moneys shall be paid from time to time upon the written order of the Company, signed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or its President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or its Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer.
 
Section 7.06.
                        
Compensation and Expenses of Trustee
.  The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation, and, except as otherwise expressly provided, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation, expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall have been caused by its own negligence or willful misconduct.  The Company also covenants to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability in the premises.  The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder.  Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities or coupons.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default, the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture.
 
Section 7.07.
                        
Officers' Certificate as Evidence
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate delivered to the Trustee, and such Certificate, in the absence of negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
Section 7.08.
                        
Conflicting Interest of Trustee
.
 
(a)
                                 
If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, it shall, within ninety days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign in the manner and with the effect specified in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939.
 
(b)
                                
In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Trustee shall, within ten days after the expiration of such ninety-day period, transmit notice of such failure to all Securityholders of the series affected by the conflicting interest as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register.
 
Section 7.09.
                        
Eligibility of Trustee
.  There shall at all times be a trustee hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, which (a) is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, and (b) is subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial or District of Columbia authority and (c) shall have at all times a combined capital and surplus of not less than fifty million dollars.  If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law, or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation at any time shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.  In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.
 
Section 7.10.
                        
Resignation or Removal of Trustee
.  (a)  The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may, upon sixty days' written notice to the Company, at any time resign with respect to one or more or all series by giving written notice of resignation to the Company, and (i) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then outstanding, by giving notice of such resignation to the Holders thereof, by publication at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then outstanding, by mailing notice of such resignation to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee as described in Section 5.04 at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee and (iii) by mailing notice of such resignation to the Holders of then outstanding Registered Securities of each series affected at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register.  Upon receiving such notice of resignation the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee with respect to the applicable series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Company, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee.  If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within thirty days after the mailing of such notice of resignation to the Securityholders, the resigning Trustee may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 6.08, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee.  Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
(b)
                                
In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
 
(1)
                                 
the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of Section 7.08 with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months, or
 
(2)
                                 
the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 with respect to any series of Securities and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder, or
 
(3)
                                 
the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation,
 
then, in any such case, the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to the applicable series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee with respect to such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Company, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 6.08, any Securityholder of such series who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to such series.  Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
 
(c)
                                 
The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and appoint a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of such series with the consent of the Company.
 
(d)
                                
Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and any appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.
 
(e)
                                 
Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.
 
Section 7.11.
                        
Acceptance by Successor Trustee
.  Any successor trustee appointed as provided in Section 7.10 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to its predecessor trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor trustee with respect to all or any applicable series shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations with respect to such series of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as
trustee herein; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Company or of the successor trustee, the trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights and powers of the trustee so ceasing to act and shall assign, transfer and deliver to such successor or trustee all property and money held by such trustee so ceasing to act.  Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments in writing in order more fully and certainly to vest in and confirm to such successor trustee all such rights and powers.  Any trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property or funds held or collected by such trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06.
 
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the predecessor Trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto which shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the predecessor Trustee, and shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such trustee.
 
No successor trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09.
 
Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section, the Company shall give notice of the succession of such trustee hereunder (a) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof, by publication of such notice at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, (b) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee pursuant to Section 5.04, by mailing such notice to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee (and the Trustee shall make such information available to the Company for such purpose) and (c) to the Holders of Registered Securities of each series affected, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register.  If the Company fails to mail such notice in the prescribed manner within ten days after the acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be so given at the expense of the Company.
 
Section 7.12.
                        
Successor by Merger, etc
.  Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of
 
Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
  In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
Section 7.13.
                        
Limitations on Rights of Trustee as Creditor
.  If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
 
Section 8.01.
                        
Action by Securityholders
.  Whenever in this Indenture it is provided that the Holders of a specified aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified amount have joined therein may be evidenced (a) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Securityholders in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company, or (b) by the record of the Holders of Securities voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Securityholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Nine, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Securityholders.
 
In determining whether the Holders of a specified aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have taken any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be equal to the amount of the principal thereof that could be declared to be due and payable upon an Event of Default pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Security at the time the taking of such action is evidenced to the Trustee.
 
Section 8.02.
                        
Proof of Execution by Securityholders
.  Subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01, 7.02 and 9.05, proof of the execution of any instrument by a Securityholder or its agent or proxy shall be sufficient if made in the following manner:
 
(a)
                                 
In the case of Holders of Unregistered Securities, the fact and date of the execution by any such person of any instrument may be proved by the certificate of any notary public or other officer of any jurisdiction authorized to take acknowledgments of deeds or administer oaths that the person executing such instruments acknowledged to him the execution thereof, or by an affidavit of a witness to such execution sworn to before any such notary or other such officer.  Where such execution is by or on behalf of
any legal entity other than an individual, such certificate or affidavit shall also constitute sufficient proof of the authority of the person executing the same.  The fact of the holding by any Holder of a Security of any series, and the identifying number of such Security and the date of his holding the same, may be proved by the production of such Security or by a certificate executed by any trust company, bank, banker or recognized securities dealer wherever situated satisfactory to the Trustee, if such certificate shall be deemed by the Trustee to be satisfactory.  Each such certificate shall be dated and shall state that on the date thereof a Security of such series bearing a specified identifying number was deposited with or exhibited to such trust company, bank, banker or recognized securities dealer by the person named in such certificate.  Any such certificate may be issued in respect of one or more Securities of one or more series specified therein.  The holding by the person named in any such certificate of any Securities of any series specified therein shall be presumed to continue for a period of one year from the date of such certificate unless at the time of any determination of such holding (1) another certificate bearing a later date issued in respect of the same Securities shall be produced, or (2) the Security of such series specified in such certificate shall be produced by some other person, or (3) the Security of such series specified in such certificates shall have ceased to be outstanding.  Subject to Sections 7.01, 7.02 and 9.05, the fact and date of the execution of any such instrument and the amount and numbers of Securities of any series held by the person so executing such instrument and the amount and numbers of any Security or Securities for such series may also be proven in accordance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be prescribed by the Trustee for such series or in any other manner which the Trustee for such series may deem sufficient.
 
(b)
                                
In the case of Registered Securities, the ownership of such Securities shall be proved by the Security Register or by a certificate of the Security Registrar.
 
Section 8.03.
                        
Who Are Deemed Absolute Owners
.  The Company, the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent and any Security Registrar may treat the Holder of any Unregistered Security and the Holder of any coupon as the absolute owner of such Unregistered Security or coupon (whether or not such Unregistered Security or coupon shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes and neither the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.  The Company, the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent and any Security Registrar may, subject to Section 2.04 hereof, treat the person in whose name a Registered Security shall be registered upon the Security Register as the absolute owner of such Registered Security (whether or not such Registered Security shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes and neither the Company, the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
Section 8.04.
                        
Company-Owned Securities Disregarded
.  In determining whether the Holders of the required aggregate principal amount of Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver under this Indenture, Securities which are owned by the Company or by any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect control with the Company, shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the
purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver only Securities which the Trustee knows are so owned shall be disregarded.  Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgor's right to vote such Securities and that the pledgee is not a person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company.  In the case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee.
 
Section 8.05.
                        
Revocation of consents; Future Securityholders Bound
.  At any time prior to the taking of any action by the Holders of the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any Holder of a Security the identifying number of which is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the Holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its office and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security.  Except as aforesaid, any such action taken by the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Security issued in exchange or substitution therefor irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security.  Any action taken by the Holders of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of all the Securities of each series intended to be affected thereby.
 
Section 9.01.
                        
Purposes of Meetings
.  A meeting of Securityholders of any series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article for any of the following purposes:
 
(1)
                                 
to give any notice to the Company or to the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to waive any default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Security-holders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article Six;
 
(2)
                                 
to remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee pursuant to the provisions of Article Seven;
 
(3)
                                 
to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.02; or
 
(4)
                                 
to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series, as the case may be, under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
 
Section 9.02.
                        
Call of Meetings by Trustee
.  The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series to take any action specified in Section 9.01, to be held at such time and at such place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York as the
Trustee shall determine.  Notice of every meeting of the Holders of Securities of any or all series, setting forth the time and place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given (i) if any Unregistered Securities of such series are then Outstanding, to all Holders thereof, by publication at least twice in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York prior to the date fixed for the meeting, the first publication, in each case, to be not less than twenty nor more than one hundred eighty days prior to the date fixed for the meeting and the last publication to be not more than five days prior to the date fixed for the meeting, (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of such series are then Outstanding, to all Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee as described in Section 5.04, by mailing such notice to such Holders at such addresses, not less than twenty nor more than one hundred eighty days prior to the date fixed for the meeting and (iii) to all Holders of then Outstanding Registered Securities of such series, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, not less than twenty nor more than one hundred eighty days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.  Failure of any Holder or Holders to receive such notice or any defect therein shall in no case affect the validity of any action taken at such meeting.  Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be valid without notice if the Holders of all Securities of such series Outstanding, the Company and the Trustee are present in person or by proxy or shall have waived notice thereof before or after the meeting.
 
Section 9.03.
                        
Call of Meetings by Company or Securityholders
.  In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least ten percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series, as the case may be, then Outstanding, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of Securityholders of Securities of such series to take any action authorized in Section 9.01, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed or published as provided in Section 9.02, the notice of such meeting within thirty days after receipt of such request, then the Company or the Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified may determine the time and the place in said Borough of Manhattan for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 9.01, by mailing or publishing notice thereof as provided in Section 9.02.
 
Section 9.04.
                        
Qualification for Voting
.  To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Securityholders a person shall be a Holder of one or more Securities of the series with respect to which a meeting is being held or a person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by such a Holder.  The only persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of the Securityholders shall be the persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
 
Section 9.05.
                        
Regulations
.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Securityholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall think fit.
The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Securityholders as provided in Section 9.03, in which case the Company or the Securityholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman.  A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities represented at the meeting and entitled to vote.
 
Subject to the provisions of Sections 8.01 and 8.04, at any meeting of Securityholders of any series, each Securityholder or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount at maturity of Securities of such series held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting not to be Outstanding.  The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote except as a Securityholder or proxy.  Any meeting of Securityholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.02 or 9.03 may be adjourned from time to time, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
 
Section 9.06.
                        
Voting
.  The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Securityholders shall be by written ballot on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Securityholders or proxies and on which shall be inscribed the identifying number or numbers or to which shall be attached a list of identifying numbers of the Securities held or represented by them.  The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting.  A record in duplicate of the proceedings of each meeting of Securityholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as provided in Section 9.02.  The record shall be signed and verified by the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Company and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting.
 
Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
Section 10.01.
                 
Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Securityholders
.  The Company, when authorized by Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date of the execution thereof) for one or more of the following purposes:
(a)
                                 
to evidence the succession of another corporation to the Company, or successive successions, and the assumption by any successor corporation of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company pursuant to Article Eleven hereof;
 
(b)
                                
to add to the covenants of the Company for the Holders of all or any series of Securities, or the coupons appertaining to such Securities, to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of Securities, or the coupons appertaining to such Securities, or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company;
 
(c)
                                 
to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of global Securities or Securities of any series in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, and to provide for exchangeability of such Securities with Registered Securities issued hereunder and to make all appropriate changes for such purpose, and to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of uncertificated Securities of any series;
 
(d)
                                
to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities; to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee; or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture or under any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities as shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of any series of Securities or any coupons appertaining to such Securities in any material respect;
 
(e)
                                 
to evidence and provide for the acceptance and appointment hereunder by a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add or change any provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, pursuant to Section 7.11;
 
(f)
                                   
to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.03 and 2.01; and
 
(g)
                                
to provide for the terms and conditions of conversion into Common Stock of the Securities of any series which are convertible into Common Stock, if different from those set forth in Article 14.
 
The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture which adversely affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section may be executed by the Company and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 10.02.
 
Section 10.02.
                 
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders
.  With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series or any coupons appertaining to such Securities; provided, however, that, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, no such supplemental indenture shall:
 
(a)
                                 
extend the stated maturity of any Securities, or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium, if any, or reduce the rate or extend the time of payment of any interest or Additional Amounts thereon or reduce the amount due and payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof or the amount provable in bankruptcy, or make the principal of, or interest, premium or Additional Amounts on any Security payable in any coin or currency other than that provided in such Security,
 
(b)
                                
impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the stated maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date therefor),
 
(c)
                                 
reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required pursuant to Section 6.01 to waive defaults, or
 
(d)
                                
modify any of the provisions of this Section or Section 6.09, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 7.11 and 10.01(e).
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
Upon the request of the Company, accompanied by a copy of a Board Resolution authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the
Company in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
 
Promptly after the execution and delivery by the Company, and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall give notice of such supplemental indenture (i) to the Holders of then Outstanding Registered Securities of each series affected thereby, by mailing a notice thereof by first-class mail to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, (ii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected thereby are then Outstanding, to the Holders thereof who have filed their names and addresses with the Trustee as described in Section 5.04, by mailing a notice thereof by first-class mail to such Holders at such addresses as were so furnished to the Trustee and (iii) if any Unregistered Securities of a series affected thereby are then Outstanding, to all Holders thereof, by publication of a notice thereof at least once in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and in each case such notice shall set forth in general terms the substance of such supplemental indenture.  Any failure of the Company to mail or publish such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
 
Section 10.03.
                 
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act; Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.  Any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as then in effect.  Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company and the Holders of Securities shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
 
The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 7.02, shall be given an Opinion of Counsel and Officers' Certificate stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture as conclusive evidence that any such supplemental indenture complies with the provisions of this Article Ten.
 
Section 10.04.
                 
Notation on Securities
.  Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provision of this Article Ten may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture.  New Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors of the Company, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company,
authenticated by the Trustee and delivered, without charge to the Securityholders, in exchange for the Securities of such series then Outstanding.
 
Section 11.01.
                 
Company May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
.  So long as any Securities shall be Outstanding, the Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person unless:
 
(a)
                                 
the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, partnership or trust, organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed;
 
(b)
                                
immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing;
 
(c)
                                 
if, as a result of any such consolidation or merger or such conveyance, transfer or lease, properties or assets of the Company would become subject to a mortgage, pledge, lien, security interest or other encumbrance of any nature which would not be permitted by this Indenture, the Company or such successor corporation or such person, firm or corporation, as the case may be, shall take such steps as shall be necessary effectively to secure the Securities (together with, if the Company so determines, any other indebtedness for money borrowed of the Company then existing or thereafter created which is not subordinate to the Securities) equally and ratably with (or, at the option of the Company, prior to) all indebtedness secured thereby; and
 
(d)
                                
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
 
Section 11.02.
                 
Successor Corporation Substituted
.  So long as any Securities shall be outstanding, upon any consolidation or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 
11.01, the successor corporation formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect if such successor corporation had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor corporation shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities and any coupons.
 
Section 12.01.
                 
Discharge of Indenture
.  This Indenture shall upon Company Order cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, when
 
(a)
                                 
either:
 
(i)
                                    
all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07 and (B) Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 12.04) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(ii)
                                 
all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation:
 
(A)
                             
have become due and payable, or
 
(B)
                               
will become due and payable at their stated maturity within one year, or
 
(C)
                               
are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company,
 
and the Company, in the case of (A) , (B) or (C) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts (if any) to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the stated maturity or date of redemption, as the case may be;
 
(b)           the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and
 
(c)           the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture have been complied with.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 7.06 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (ii) of clause (a) of this Section or if money or obligations shall have been deposited with or received by the Trustee pursuant to Section 13.02, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 6.03 and Section 12.04 shall survive.  After any such deposit, the Trustee shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series except for those surviving obligations specified above.
 
Section 12.02.      Deposited Moneys to Be Held in Trust by Trustee
.  Subject to Section 12.04, all moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to this Indenture shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent), to the Holders of the particular Securities and of any coupons appertaining to such Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any.
 
Section 12.03.      Paying Agent to Repay Moneys Held
.  In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, all moneys then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this Indenture shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys.
 
Section 12.04.      Return of Unclaimed Moneys
.  Any moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security and not applied but remaining unclaimed for three years after the date upon which such principal (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee or such paying agent on demand, and the Holder of such Security or any coupon appertaining to such Security shall thereafter look only to the Company for any payment as unsecured general creditors unless an abandoned property law designates another Person and all liability of the Trustee or any paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease; provided, however, that the Trustee or such paying agent, before being required to make any such repayment with respect to moneys deposited with it for any payment in respect of Unregistered Securities of any series, may at the expense of the Company cause to be published once, in an Authorized Newspaper in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, notice that such moneys remain and that, after a date specified therein, which shall not be less than thirty days from the date of such publication, any unclaimed balance of such money then remaining will be repaid to the Company.
Section 13.01.      Applicability of Article; Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.  Unless pursuant to Section 2.01 provision is made for the inapplicability of either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.02 or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.03, then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be, together with the other provisions of this Article Thirteen, shall be applicable to the Securities of such series, and the Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to the Securities of such series, elect to have either Section 13.02 (unless inapplicable) or Section 13.03 (unless inapplicable) be applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series upon compliance with the applicable conditions set forth below in this Article Thirteen.
 
Section 13.02.      Defeasance and Discharge
.  Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to defease the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company shall be discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, ).  Defeasance shall mean that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same); provided,  however, that the following rights, obligations, powers, trusts, duties and immunities shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund provided for in Section 13.04, payments in respect of the principal of (and premium, if any), interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, on such Securities when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.02 and 12.04, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder and (d) this Article Thirteen.  Subject to compliance with this Article Thirteen, the Company may exercise its option with respect to defeasance under this Section 13.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option with respect to covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 in regard to the Securities of such series.
"defeasance"
 
Section 13.03.      Covenant Defeasance
.  Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to obtain a covenant defeasance with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company shall be released from its obligations under this Indenture (except its obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 6.02, 7.06 and 7.10) with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, ).  Covenant defeasance shall mean that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in this Indenture (except its obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 6.02, 7.06 and 7.10), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein in any such Section or Article or by reason of any reference in any such Section or Article to any other provision herein or in any other document, and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.01(c) with respect to
"covenant defeasance"
Outstanding Securities of such series, and the remainder of this Indenture and of the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
 
Section 13.04.      Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.  The following shall be conditions to defeasance under Section 13.02 and covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series:
 
(a)           The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 7.09 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Thirteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments,  specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities,  (i) money in an amount, or (ii) Governmental Obligations which through the schedule payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination thereof,  sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee)  to pay and discharge, (A) the principal of (and premium, if any, on), each installment of principal of (and premium, if any), interest (if any) and all Additional Amounts due (if any) on the Outstanding Securities of such series on the stated maturity of such principal or installment of principal, interest or Additional Amount and (B) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with terms of this Indenture and of such Securities.  For this purpose, means securities that are (I) direct obligations of the government which issued the currency in which the Securities of such series are denominated for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (II) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by such government, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3 (a) (2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of such Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on such Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
"Government Obligations"
 
(b)           No Event of Default or event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as subsections 6.01(d) and (e) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date
 
of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
(c)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
 
(d)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause any Securities of such series then listed on any national securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act, as amended, to be delisted.
 
(e)           In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.02, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (i) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a private letter ruling pertaining to this transaction or a comparable form of transaction, or (ii) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law (including, but not limited to, a change in the Internal Revenue Code, proposed, temporary or final Treasury regulations, Revenue Rulings, Revenue Procedures, Internal Revenue Service Notices, Announcements, and other public announcements), in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred.
 
(f)            In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.03, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
 
(g)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company in connection therewith pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
(h)           The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 13.02 or the covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
 
Section 13.05.      Deposited Money and Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12.04, all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee  collectively for purposes of this Section 13.05, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of the Outstanding Securities of a particular series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this
Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any), interest and Additional Amounts, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof, other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
Anything in this Article Thirteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company request any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited for the purpose for which such money or Government Obligations were deposited.
 
Section 14.01.      Conversion Privilege
.
 If so provided in a Board Resolution with respect to the Securities of any series, the Holder of a Security of such series shall have the right, at such Holder's option, to convert, in accordance with the terms of such series of Securities and this Article Fourteen, all or any part (in a denomination of, unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution or supplemental indenture with respect to Securities of such series, $1,000 in principal amount or any integral multiple thereof) of such Security into shares of Common Stock or, as to any Securities called for redemption, at any time prior to the time and date fixed for such redemption (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the redemption price, in which case such right shall not terminate at such time and date). The provisions of this Article Fourteen shall not be applicable to the Securities of a series unless otherwise specified in a Board Resolution with respect to the Securities of such series.
 
Section 14.02.      Conversion Procedure; Conversion Price; Fractional Shares
.
 
(a)           Each Security to which this Article is applicable shall be convertible at the office of the Conversion Agent, and at such other place or places, if any, specified in a Board Resolution with respect to the Securities of such series, into fully paid and nonassessable shares (calculated to the nearest 1/100th of a share) of Common Stock. The Securities will be converted into shares of Common Stock at the Conversion Price therefor. No payment or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends on the Common Stock or accrued interest on a converted Security except as described in Section 14.09. The Company may, but shall not be required, in connection with any conversion of Securities, to issue a fraction of a share of Common Stock and, if the Company shall determine not to issue any such fraction, the Company shall, subject to Section 14.03(d), make a cash payment (calculated to the nearest cent) equal to such fraction
 
multiplied by the Closing Price of the Common Stock on the last Trading Day prior to the date of conversion
.
 
(b)           Before any Holder of a Security shall be entitled to convert the same into Common Stock, such Holder shall surrender such Security duly endorsed to the Company or in blank, at the office of the Conversion Agent or at such other place or places, if any, specified in a Board Resolution with respect to the Securities of such series, and shall give written notice to the Company at said office or place that he elects to convert the same and shall state in writing therein the principal amount of Securities to be converted and the name or names (with addresses) in which he wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock to be issued; provided, however, that no Security or portion thereof shall be accepted for conversion unless the principal amount of such Security or such portion, when added to the principal amount of all other Securities or portions thereof then being surrendered by the Holder thereof for conversion, exceeds the then effective Conversion Price with respect thereto. If more than one Security shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock which shall be deliverable upon conversion shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities (or specified portions thereof to the extent permitted thereby) so surrendered. Subject to the next succeeding sentence, the Company will, as soon as practicable thereafter, issue and deliver at said office or place to such Holder of a Security, or to his nominee or nominees, certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which he shall be entitled as aforesaid, together, subject to the last sentence of paragraph (a) above, with cash in lieu of any fraction of a share to which he would otherwise be entitled. The Company shall not be required to deliver certificates for shares of Common Stock while the stock transfer books for such stock or the Security Register are duly closed for any purpose, but certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered as soon as practicable after the opening of such books or Security Register. A Security shall be deemed to have been converted as of the close of business on the date of the surrender of such Security for conversion as provided above, and the Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated for all purposes as the record Holder or Holders of such Common Stock as of the close of business on such date. In case any Security shall be surrendered for partial conversion, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to or upon the written order of the Holder of the Securities so surrendered, without charge to such Holder (subject to the provisions of Section 14.08), a new Security or securities in authorized denominations in an aggregate principal amount equal to the unconverted portion of the surrendered Security.
 
Section 14.03.      Adjustment of Conversion Price for Common Stock
.
 The Conversion Price with respect to any Security which is convertible into Common Stock shall be adjusted from time to time as follows:
 
(a)           In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such securities are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend in shares of its Common Stock to holders of Common Stock, (ii) combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares of Common Stock, (iii) subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares of Common Stock or (iv) make a distribution in shares of Common Stock to holders of Common Stock, then the Conversion Price in effect immediately before such action shall be adjusted so that the Holders of such Securities, upon conversion thereof into Common
 
Stock immediately following such event, shall be entitled to receive the kind and amount of shares of capital stock of the Company which they would have owned or been entitled to receive upon or by reason of such event if such Securities had been converted immediately before the record date (or, if no record date, the effective date) for such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this Section 14.03(a) shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date in the case of a dividend or distribution and shall become effective retroactively immediately after the effective date in the case of a subdivision or combination. For the purposes of this Section 14.03(a), each Holder of Securities shall be deemed to have failed to exercise any right to elect the kind or amount of securities receivable upon the payment of any such dividend, subdivision, combination or distribution (provided that if the kind or amount of securities receivable upon such dividend, subdivision, combination or distribution is not the same for each nonelecting share, then the kind and amount of securities or other property receivable upon such dividend, subdivision, combination or distribution for each nonelecting share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the nonelecting shares).
 
(b)           In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such Securities are outstanding, issue rights or warrants to all holders of shares of its Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 days after the record date for such issuance) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into shares of Common Stock) at a price per share less than the Current Market Price of the Common Stock at such record date (treating the price per share of the securities convertible into Common Stock as equal to (x) the sum of (i) the price for a unit of the security convertible into Common Stock and (ii) any additional consideration initially payable upon the conversion of such security into Common Stock divided by (y) the number of shares of Common Stock initially underlying such convertible security), the Conversion Price with respect to such Securities shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the date of issuance of such rights or warrants by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase (or into which the convertible securities so offered are initially convertible), and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants plus the number of shares or securities which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares or securities so offered for subscription or purchase (or the aggregate purchase price of the convertible securities so offered plus the aggregate amount of any additional consideration initially payable upon conversion of such securities into Common Stock) would purchase at such Current Market Price of the Common Stock. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants.
 
(c)           In case the Company shall, at any time or from time to time while any of such Securities are outstanding, distribute to all holders of shares of its Common Stock (including any such distribution made in connection with a consolidation or merger in which the Company is the continuing corporation and the Common Stock is not changed or exchanged) cash, evidences of its indebtedness, securities or assets (excluding (i) regular periodic cash dividends in amounts, if any, determined from time to time by the Board of Directors, (ii) dividends payable in shares of Common Stock for which adjustment is made under Section 14.03(a) or (iii) rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Company
 
(excluding those referred to in Section 14.03(b)), then in each such case the Conversion Price with respect to such Securities shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by dividing the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the date of such distribution by a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the Current Market Price of the Common Stock on the record date referred to below, and the denominator of which shall be such Current Market Price of the Common Stock less the then fair market value (as determined by the Board of Directors of the Company, whose determination shall be conclusive) of the portion of the cash or assets or evidences of indebtedness or securities so distributed or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to one share of Common Stock (provided that such denominator shall never be less than 1.0); provided, however, that no adjustment shall be made with respect to any distribution of rights to purchase securities of the Company if a Holder of Securities would otherwise be entitled to receive such rights upon conversion at any time of such Securities into Common Stock unless such rights are subsequently redeemed by the Company, in which case such redemption shall be treated for purposes of this section as a dividend on the Common Stock. Such adjustment shall become effective retroactively immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution; and in the event that such distribution is not so made, the Conversion Price shall again be adjusted to the Conversion Price which would then be in effect if such record date had not been fixed.
 
(d)           The Company shall be entitled to make such additional adjustments in the Conversion Price, in addition to those required by subsections 14.03(a), 14.03(b) and 14.03(c), as shall be necessary in order that any dividend or distribution of Common Stock, any subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of Common Stock or any issuance of rights or warrants referred to above shall not be taxable to the holders of Common Stock for United States Federal income tax purposes.
 
(e)           In any case in which this Section 14.03 shall require that any adjustment be made effective as of or retroactively immediately following a record date, the Company may elect to defer (but only for five (5) Trading Days following the filing of the statement referred to in Section 14.05) issuing to the Holder of any Securities converted after such record date the shares of Common Stock and other capital stock of the Company issuable upon such conversion over and above the shares of Common Stock and other capital stock of the company issuable upon such conversion on the basis of the Conversion Price prior to adjustment; provided, however, that the Company shall deliver to such Holder a due bill or other appropriate instrument evidencing such Holder's right to receive such additional shares upon the occurrence of the event requiring such adjustment.
 
(f)            All calculations under this Section 14.03 shall be made to the nearest cent or one-hundredth of a share or security, with one-half cent and 0.005 of a share, respectively, being rounded upward. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 14.03, the Company shall not be required to make any adjustment of the Conversion Price unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of such price. Any lesser adjustment shall be carried forward and shall be made at the time of and together with the next subsequent adjustment which, together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least 1% in such price. Any adjustments under this Section 14.03 shall be made successively whenever an event requiring such an adjustment occurs.
 
(g)           In the event that at any time, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to this Section 14.03, the Holder of any Security thereafter surrendered for conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares of stock of the Company other than shares of Common Stock into which the Securities originally were convertible, the Conversion Price of such other shares so receivable upon conversion of any such Security shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as to practicable the provisions with respect to Common Stock contained in subparagraphs (a) through (f) of this Section 14.03, and the provision of Sections 14.01, 14.02 and 14.04 through 14.09 with respect to the Common Stock shall apply on like or similar terms to any such other shares and the determination of the Board of Directors as to any such adjustment shall be conclusive.
 
(h)           No adjustment shall be made pursuant to this Section (i) if the effect thereof would be to reduce the Conversion Price below the par value (if any) of the Common Stock or (ii) subject to 14.03(e) hereof, with respect to any Security that is converted prior to the time such adjustment otherwise would be made.
 
Section 14.04.      Consolidation or Merger of the Company
.  In case of either (a) any consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party, other than a merger or consolidation in which the company is the surviving or continuing corporation and which does not result in a reclassification of, or change (other than a change in par value or from par value to no par value or from no par value to par value, as a result of a subdivision or combination) in, outstanding shares of Common Stock or (b) any sale or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company to another Person, then each Security then outstanding shall be convertible from and after such merger, consolidation, sale or conveyance of property and assets into the kind and amount of shares of stock or other securities and property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such Securities would have been converted immediately prior to such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance, subject to adjustments which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in this Article Fourteen (and assuming such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance (provided that, if the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance is not the same for each nonelecting share, then the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property (including cash) receivable upon such consolidation, merger, sale or conveyance for each nonelecting share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the nonelecting shares or securities)). The Company shall not enter into any of the transactions referred to in clause (a) or (b) of the preceding sentence unless effective provision shall be made so as to give effect to the provisions set forth in this Section 14.04. The provisions of this Section 14.04 shall apply similarly to successive consolidations, mergers, sales or conveyances.
 
Section 14.05.      Notice of Adjustment
.  Whenever an adjustment in the Conversion Price with respect to a series of Securities is required:
 
(a)           the Company shall forthwith place on file with the Trustee and any Conversion Agent for such Securities a certificate of the Treasurer of the Company, stating the
adjusted Conversion Price determined as provided herein and setting forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show the reason for and the manner of computing such adjustment, such certificate to be conclusive evidence that the adjustment is correct; and
 
(b)           a notice stating that the Conversion Price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price shall forthwith be mailed, first class postage prepaid, by the Company to the Holders of record of such Outstanding Securities.
 
Section 14.06.      Notice in Certain Events
.  In case:
 
(a)           of a consolidation or merger to which the Company is a party and for which approval of any stockholders of the company is required, or of the sale or conveyance to another Person or entity or group of Persons or entities acting in concert as a partnership, limited partnership, syndicate or other group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Company; or
 
(b)           of the voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Company; or
 
(c)           of any action triggering an adjustment of the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article Fourteen;
 
then, in each case, the Company shall cause to be filed with the Trustee and the Conversion Agent for the applicable Securities, and shall cause to be mailed, first class postage prepaid, to the Holders of record of applicable securities, at least fifteen (15) days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified, a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of any distribution or grant of rights or warrants triggering an adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article Fourteen, or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of record of Common Stock entitled to such distribution, rights or warrants are to be determined, or (y) the date on which any reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up triggering an adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Article Fourteen is expected to become effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such reclassification, consolidation, merger, sale, conveyance, dissolution, liquidation or winding up.
 
Failure to give such notice or any defect therein shall not affect the legality or validity of the proceedings described in clause (a), (b) or (c) of this Section.
 
Section 14.07.      Company to Reserve Stock; Registration; Listing
.
 
(a)           The Company shall at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights, out of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock, for the purpose of effecting the conversion of the Securities, such number of its duly authorized shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all applicable outstanding securities into such Common Stock at any time (assuming that, at the time of the computation of such number of shares or securities, all such Securities would be hold by a single holder); provided, however, that nothing contained herein shall preclude the Company from
satisfying its obligations in respect of the conversion of the Securities by delivery of purchased shares of Common Stock which are held in the treasury of the Company. The Company shall from time to time, in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, use its best efforts to cause the authorized amount of the Common Stock to be increased if the aggregate of the authorized amount of the Common Stock remaining unissued and the issued shares of such Common Stock in its treasury (other than any such shares reserved for issuance in any other connection) shall not be sufficient to permit the conversion of all securities.
 
(b)           If any shares of Common Stock which would be issuable upon conversion of Securities hereunder require registration with or approval of any governmental authority before such shares or securities may be issued upon such conversion, the Company will in good faith and as expeditiously as possible endeavor to cause such shares or securities to be duly registered or approved, as the case may be. The Company will endeavor to list the shares of Common Stock required to be delivered upon conversion of the Securities prior to such delivery upon the principal national securities exchange upon which the outstanding Common Stock is listed at the time of such delivery.
 
Section 14.08.      Taxes on Conversion
.  The Company shall pay any and all documentary, stamp or similar issue or transfer taxes that may be payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock on conversion of Securities pursuant hereto. The Company shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock or the portion, if any, of the Securities which are not so converted in a name other than that in which the Securities so converted were registered, and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the Person requesting such issue has paid to the Company the amount of such tax or has established to the satisfaction of the Company that such tax has been paid.
 
Section 14.09.      Conversion After Record Date
.  If any Securities are surrendered for conversion subsequent to the record date preceding an Interest Payment Date but on or prior to such Interest Payment Date (except Securities called for redemption on a redemption date between such record date and Interest Payment Date), the Holder of such Securities at the close of business on such record date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable on such Securities on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the conversion thereof. Securities surrendered for conversion during the period from the close of business on any record date next preceding any Interest Payment Date to the opening of business on such Interest Payment Date shall (except in the case of Securities which have been called for redemption on a redemption date within such period) be accompanied by payment in New York Clearing House funds or other funds acceptable to the Company of an amount equal to the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date on the securities being surrendered for conversion. Except as provided in this Section 14.09, no adjustments in respect of payments of interest on securities surrendered for conversion or any dividends or distributions or interest on the Common Stock issued upon conversion shall be made upon the conversion of any Securities.
 
Section 14.10.      Corporate Action Regarding Par Value of Common Stock
.
 Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment reducing the applicable Conversion Price below the then par value (if any) of the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of the Securities, the Company will take any corporate action which may, in the
 
opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Company may validly and legally issue fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Price.
 
Section 14.11.      Company Determination Final
.  Any determination that the Company or the Board of Directors must make pursuant to this Article is conclusive.
 
Section 14.12.      Trustee's Disclaimer
.  The Trustee has no duty to determine when an adjustment under this Article should be made, how it should be made or what it should be.  The Trustee has no duty to determine whether a supplemental indenture under this Article need be entered into or whether the provisions of any supplemental indenture are correct.  The Trustee makes no representation as to the validity or value of any securities or assets issued upon conversion of Securities. The Trustee shall not be responsible for the Company's failure to comply with this Article. Each Conversion Agent other than the Company shall have the same protection under this Section as the Trustee.
 
Section 15.01.      Indenture and Securities Solely Corporate Obligations
.  No recourse under or upon any obligations covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any past, present or future incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company or of any successor Corporation, either directly or through the Company or any successor corporation, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities and coupons.
 
Section 16.01.      Benefits of Indenture Restricted to Parties and Securityholders
.  Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities or coupons, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities or coupons, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture or under any covenant or provision herein contained, all such covenants and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities or coupons.
 
Section 16.02.      Provisions Binding on Company's Successors
.  All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 16.03.      Addresses for Notices, etc
.  Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities to or on the Company may be given or served by being deposited postage
 
prepaid first class mail in a post office letter box addressed (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee), as follows:  Aon Corporation, 200 East Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention:  Treasurer.  Any notice, direction, request or demand by the Company any Securityholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or made in writing at its Corporate Trust Department, 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Company by the Trustee.
 
Section 16.04.      Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent
.  Upon any application or demand by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
Section 16.05.      Legal Holidays
.  In any case where the date of maturity of any interest, premium or Additional Amounts on or principal of the Securities or the date fixed for redemption of any Securities shall not be a Business Day in a city where payment thereof is to be made, then payment of any interest, premium or Additional Amounts on, or principal of, such Securities need not be made on such date in such city but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date.
 
Section 16.06.      Trust Indenture Act to Control
.  If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision included in this Indenture which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, such required provision shall control.
 
Section 16.07.      Execution in Counterparts
.  This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Section 16.08.      New York Contract
.  This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
 
Section 16.09.  Separability.
  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
 
Section 16.10.  Assignment.
  The Company will have the right at all times to assign any of its rights or obligations under this Indenture to a direct or indirect wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Company, provided that, in the event of any such assignment, the Company will remain liable for all such obligations. Subject to the foregoing, the Indenture is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the parties thereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Indenture may not otherwise be assigned by the parties hereto.
 
Section 16.11.  Waiver of Jury Trial.
  EACH OF THE COMPANY AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
Section 16.12.  Force Majeure.
  In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable best efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to avoid and mitigate the effects of such occurrences and to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Indenture to be duly signed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, this Security is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
AON CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of                      DOLLARS ($                       ) on September 30, 2015 and, subject to Section 16.05 of said Indenture, to pay interest thereon from September 10, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each March 30 and September 30, commencing on March 30, 2011 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), at the rate of 3.500% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest established by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the
 
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks to the address of the Holder entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption and repurchase at the option of the respective Holders prior to the stated maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated: September 10, 2010
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the Company entitled "3.500% Senior Notes due 2015" (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010 (herein called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities of this series will initially be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $                      .  The Company may, from time to time, without the written consent of or notice to holders of the Securities of this series, create and issue under the Indenture additional securities having the same terms and conditions as the Securities of this series (other than the issue date, the issue price and, to the extent applicable, the first date from which interest on such additional securities shall accrue and the first interest payment date for such additional securities) and such additional securities shall be consolidated with and form a single series with the Securities of this series.
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of this series, in whole at any time, or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, on not less than 30 nor more than 90 days' notice, at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 35 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but excluding the redemption date (each such redemption being an "Optional Redemption").
 
If the Company has given notice of Optional Redemption as provided herein and in the Indenture and funds for the redemption of any Securities of this series called for Optional Redemption have been made available on the applicable redemption date, such Securities will cease to bear interest on the date fixed for redemption.  Thereafter, the only right of the Holders of such Securities will be to receive payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
The Company will prepare and mail a notice of an Optional Redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 90 calendar days prior to the date fixed for such Optional Redemption. On and after the redemption date for an Optional Redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price).
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee is given fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
 
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
If for any reason (i) the Company's merger with Hewitt Associates, Inc. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 11, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement") (the "Merger") is not consummated on or prior to March 31, 2011 or the Merger Agreement is terminated at any time prior thereto, the Company will redeem all the Securities of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the later of the date of initial issuance or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, whichever is later, to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date) (such redemption being the "Special Mandatory Redemption").
 
The Company will cause the notice of Special Mandatory Redemption to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, within five business days after the occurrence of the event triggering the Mandatory Redemption to each Holder at its registered address. If funds sufficient to pay the redemption price of all Securities to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the paying agent on or before the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Securities will cease to bear interest and all rights under the Securities shall terminate.  The provisions relating to Special Mandatory Redemption set forth in this paragraph may not be waived or modified without the written
 
consent of Holders of at least 90% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of this series.
 
The "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) April 30, 2011, if the merger has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2011, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the termination of the Merger Agreement for any reason.
 
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its Optional Redemption right by notifying the Holders of the Securities to that effect, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's Securities on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.  Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date that notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
 
Holders of Securities electing to have Securities purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Securities, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Security completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Securities to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and
regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities by virtue of any such conflict.
 
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
                 
accept for payment all Securities or portions of such Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
                 
deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
 
                 
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of the Securities or portions of the Securities being repurchased and that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of the Securities pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the following terms will be applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of such holding company
immediately after giving effect to such transaction. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
 
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
 
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Company's Board of Directors on the date the Securities were initially issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Company's Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Company's Board of Directors at the time of the nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which that member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to the nomination).
 
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc. and its successors.
 
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
 
"Rating Agencies" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; provided, that if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Securities is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period will be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) beginning on the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of that person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of that person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of
this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities.
 
All terms used but not defined in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
 
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Change of Control Offer, check the box:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to a Change of Control Offer, state the principal amount (in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000):
 
$
                                   
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of the Security)
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, this Security is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
CUSIP No.
 
AON CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of                   DOLLARS ($                 ) on September 30, 2020 and, subject to Section 16.05 of said Indenture, to pay interest thereon from September 10, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each March 30 and September 30, commencing on March 30, 2011 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), at the rate of 5.000% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest established by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks to the address of the Holder entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption and repurchase at the option of the respective Holders prior to the stated maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated: September 10, 2010
 
 
 
 
Attest:
 
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the Company entitled "5.000% Senior Notes due 2020" (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010 (herein called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities of this series will initially be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $                       .  The Company may, from time to time, without the written consent of or notice to holders of the Securities of this series, create and issue under the Indenture additional securities having the same terms and conditions as the Securities of this series (other than the issue date, the issue price and, to the extent applicable, the first date from which interest on such additional securities shall accrue and the first interest payment date for such additional securities) and such additional securities shall be consolidated with and form a single series with the Securities of this series.
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of this series, in whole at any time, or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, on not less than 30 nor more than 90 days' notice, at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 40 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but excluding the redemption date (each such redemption being an "Optional Redemption").
 
If the Company has given notice of Optional Redemption as provided herein and in the Indenture and funds for the redemption of any Securities of this series called for Optional Redemption have been made available on the applicable redemption date, such Securities will cease to bear interest on the date fixed for redemption.  Thereafter, the only right of the Holders of such Securities will be to receive payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
The Company will prepare and mail a notice of an Optional Redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 90 calendar days prior to the date fixed for such Optional Redemption. On and after the redemption date for an Optional Redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price).
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance
with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee is given fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
 
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
If for any reason (i) the Company's merger with Hewitt Associates, Inc. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 11, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement") (the "Merger") is not consummated on or prior to March 31, 2011 or the Merger Agreement is terminated at any time prior thereto, the Company will redeem all the Securities of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the later of the date of initial issuance or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, whichever is later, to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date) (such redemption being the "Special Mandatory Redemption").
The Company will cause the notice of Special Mandatory Redemption to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, within five business days after the occurrence of the event triggering the Mandatory Redemption to each Holder at its registered address. If funds sufficient to pay the redemption price of all Securities to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the paying agent on or before the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Securities will cease to bear interest and all rights under the Securities shall terminate.  The provisions relating to Special Mandatory Redemption set forth in this paragraph may not be waived or modified without the written consent of Holders of at least 90% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of this series.
 
The "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) April 30, 2011, if the merger has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2011, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the termination of the Merger Agreement for any reason.
 
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its Optional Redemption right by notifying the Holders of the Securities to that effect, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's Securities on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.  Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date that notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
 
Holders of Securities electing to have Securities purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Securities, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Security completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Securities to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer
made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities by virtue of any such conflict.
 
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
                 
accept for payment all Securities or portions of such Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
                 
deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
 
                 
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of the Securities or portions of the Securities being repurchased and that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of the Securities pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the following terms will be applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock
outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
 
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
 
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Company's Board of Directors on the date the Securities were initially issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Company's Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Company's Board of Directors at the time of the nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which that member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to the nomination).
 
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc. and its successors.
 
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
 
"Rating Agencies" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; provided, that if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Securities is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period will be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) beginning on the
first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of that person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of that person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of
like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities.
 
All terms used but not defined in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
 
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Change of Control Offer, check the box:
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to a Change of Control Offer, state the principal amount (in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000):
 
$
                                   
 
(Sign exactly as your name appears on the other side of the Security)
 

Exhibit 4.4
Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, this Security is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
CUSIP No.
 
AON CORPORATION, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of                        DOLLARS ($                  ) on September 30, 2040 and, subject to Section 16.05 of said Indenture, to pay interest thereon from September 10, 2010 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each March 30 and September 30, commencing on March 30, 2011 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), at the rate of 6.250% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the March 15 or September 15 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest established by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the
 
United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks to the address of the Holder entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption and repurchase at the option of the respective Holders prior to the stated maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated: September 10, 2010
 
 
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the Company entitled "6.250% Senior Notes due 2040" (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010 (herein called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities of this series will initially be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $                   .  The Company may, from time to time, without the written consent of or notice to holders of the Securities of this series, create and issue under the Indenture additional securities having the same terms and conditions as the Securities of this series (other than the issue date, the issue price and, to the extent applicable, the first date from which interest on such additional securities shall accrue and the first interest payment date for such additional securities) and such additional securities shall be consolidated with and form a single series with the Securities of this series.
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of this series, in whole at any time, or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, on not less than 30 nor more than 90 days' notice, at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 40 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but excluding the redemption date (each such redemption being an "Optional Redemption").
 
If the Company has given notice of Optional Redemption as provided herein and in the Indenture and funds for the redemption of any Securities of this series called for Optional Redemption have been made available on the applicable redemption date, such Securities will cease to bear interest on the date fixed for redemption.  Thereafter, the only right of the Holders of such Securities will be to receive payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
The Company will prepare and mail a notice of an Optional Redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 90 calendar days prior to the date fixed for such Optional Redemption. On and after the redemption date for an Optional Redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price).
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of the Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee is given fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
 
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or their respective affiliates that are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
If for any reason (i) the Company's merger with Hewitt Associates, Inc. pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 11, 2010 (the "Merger Agreement") (the "Merger") is not consummated on or prior to March 31, 2011 or the Merger Agreement is terminated at any time prior thereto, the Company will redeem all the Securities of this series on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (as defined below) at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities, plus accrued and unpaid interest from the later of the date of initial issuance or the most recent date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, whichever is later, to but excluding the Special Mandatory Redemption Date (subject to the right of Holders on the relevant Regular Record Date to receive interest due on the relevant Interest Payment Date) (such redemption being the "Special Mandatory Redemption").
 
The Company will cause the notice of Special Mandatory Redemption to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, within five business days after the occurrence of the event triggering the Mandatory Redemption to each Holder at its registered address. If funds sufficient to pay the redemption price of all Securities to be redeemed on the Special Mandatory Redemption Date are deposited with the paying agent on or before the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, on and after the Special Mandatory Redemption Date, the Securities will cease to bear interest and all rights under the Securities shall terminate.  The provisions relating to Special Mandatory Redemption set forth in this paragraph may not be waived or modified without the written consent of Holders of at least 90% in principal amount of the outstanding Securities of this series.
 
The "Special Mandatory Redemption Date" means the earlier to occur of (1) April 30, 2011, if the merger has not been completed on or prior to March 31, 2011, or (2) the 30th day (or if such day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) following the termination of the Merger Agreement for any reason.
 
If a Change of Control Repurchase Event (as defined below) occurs, unless the Company has exercised its Optional Redemption right by notifying the Holders of the Securities to that effect, the Company shall make an offer (a "Change of Control Offer") to each Holder of the Securities of this series to repurchase all or any part (equal to $2,000 or an integral multiple of $1,000 in excess of $2,000) of that Holder's Securities on the terms set forth herein. In a Change of Control Offer, the Company shall offer payment in cash equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities repurchased, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities repurchased to the date of repurchase (the "Change of Control Payment").  Within 30 days following any Change of Control Repurchase Event or, at the Company's option, prior to any Change of Control, but after public announcement of the pending Change of Control, the Company shall send, by first class mail, a notice to each Holder of the Securities, with a copy to the Trustee, which notice shall govern the terms of the Change of Control Offer.  Such notice shall state, among other things, the purchase date, which date will be no earlier than 30 days and no later than 90 days from the date that notice is mailed, other than as may be required by law (a "Change of Control Payment Date"). The notice will, if mailed prior to the date of consummation of the Change of Control, state that the Change of Control Offer is conditioned on the Change of Control Repurchase Event occurring on or prior to the applicable Change of Control Payment Date.
 
Holders of Securities electing to have Securities purchased pursuant to a Change of Control Offer will be required to surrender their Securities, with the form entitled "Option of Holder to Elect Purchase" on the reverse of the Security completed, to the Paying Agent at the address specified in the notice, or transfer their Securities to the Paying Agent by book-entry transfer pursuant to the applicable procedures of the Paying Agent, prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the Change of Control Payment Date.
 
The Company will not be required to make a Change of Control Offer upon the occurrence of a Change of Control Repurchase Event if a third party makes such an offer in the manner, at the times and otherwise in compliance with the requirements for an offer made by the Company and the third party repurchases all Securities properly tendered and not withdrawn under its offer.
 
The Company shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14e-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and any other securities laws and regulations thereunder to the extent those laws and regulations are applicable in connection with the repurchase of the Securities as a result of a Change of Control Repurchase Event. To the extent that the provisions of any such securities laws or regulations conflict with the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the Company shall comply with those securities laws and regulations and will not be deemed to have breached its obligations under the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities by virtue of any such conflict.
 
On each Change of Control Payment Date, the Company shall, to the extent lawful:
 
     
accept for payment all Securities or portions of such Securities properly tendered pursuant to the Change of Control Offer;
 
     
deposit with the paying agent an amount equal to the Change of Control Payment in respect of all Securities or portions of Securities properly tendered; and
 
     
deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee the Securities properly accepted together with an Officer's Certificate stating the aggregate principal amount of the Securities or portions of the Securities being repurchased and that all conditions precedent provided for in the Indenture to the Change of Control Offer and to the repurchase by the Company of the Securities pursuant to the Change of Control Offer have been complied with.
 
For purposes of the Change of Control Offer provisions of the Securities, the following terms will be applicable:
 
"Change of Control" means the occurrence of any of the following: (1) the direct or indirect sale, lease, transfer, conveyance or other disposition (other than by way of merger or consolidation), in one or a series of related transactions, of all or substantially all of the Company's assets and the assets of the Company's subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to any person, other than to the Company or one of its subsidiaries; (2) the consummation of any transaction (including, without limitation, any merger or consolidation) the result of which is that any person becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or other Voting Stock into which the Company's Voting Stock is reclassified, consolidated, exchanged or changed, measured by voting power rather than number of shares; (3) the Company consolidates with, or merges with or into, any person, or any person consolidates with, or merges with or into, the Company, in any such event pursuant to a transaction in which any of the Company's outstanding Voting Stock or the Voting Stock of such other person is converted into or exchanged for cash, securities or other property, other than any such transaction where the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction constitute, or are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of the surviving person or any direct or indirect parent company of the surviving person immediately after giving effect to such transaction; or (4) the first day on which a majority of the members of the Company's board of directors are not Continuing Directors. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a transaction will not be deemed to involve a Change of Control under clause (2) above if (i) the Company becomes a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of a holding company and (ii)(A) the direct or indirect holders of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately following that transaction are substantially the same as the holders of the Company's Voting Stock immediately prior to that transaction or (B) the shares of the Company's Voting Stock outstanding immediately prior to such transaction are converted into or exchanged for, a majority of the Voting Stock of such holding company immediately after giving effect to such transaction. The term "person," as used in this definition, has the meaning given thereto in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.
 
"Change of Control Repurchase Event" means the occurrence of both a Change of Control and a Rating Event.
 
"Continuing Directors" means, as of any date of determination, any member of the Company's Board of Directors who (1) was a member of the Company's Board of Directors on the date the Securities were initially issued or (2) was nominated for election, elected or appointed to the Company's Board of Directors with the approval of a majority of the Continuing Directors who were members of the Company's Board of Directors at the time of the nomination, election or appointment (either by a specific vote or by approval of the Company's proxy statement in which that member was named as a nominee for election as a director, without objection to the nomination).
 
"Fitch" means Fitch Inc. and its successors.
 
"Investment Grade Rating" means a rating equal to or higher than Baa3 (or the equivalent) by Moody's, BBB- (or the equivalent) by S&P and BBB- (or the equivalent) by Fitch, and the equivalent investment grade credit rating from any replacement rating agency or rating agencies selected by the Company.
 
"Moody's" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc. and its successors.
 
"Rating Agencies" means each of Moody's, S&P and Fitch; provided, that if any of Moody's, S&P or Fitch ceases to provide rating services to issuers or investors, the Company may appoint a replacement for such Rating Agency that is reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
"Rating Event" means the rating on the Securities is lowered by at least two of the three Rating Agencies and the Securities are rated below an Investment Grade Rating by at least two of the three Rating Agencies, in any case on any day during the period (which period will be extended so long as the rating of the Securities is under publicly announced consideration for a possible downgrade by any of the Rating Agencies) beginning on the first public notice of the occurrence of a Change of Control and ending 60 days following consummation of such Change of Control.
 
"S&P" means Standard & Poor's Rating Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., and its successors.
 
"Voting Stock" means, with respect to any specified "person" (as that term is used in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act) as of any date, the capital stock of that person that is at the time entitled to vote generally in the election of the board of directors of that person.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
The Company shall not be obligated to pay Additional Amounts with respect to the Securities.
 
All terms used but not defined in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
 
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
 
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
 
If you want to elect to have this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to Change of Control Offer, check the box:
 
 
If you want to elect to have only part of this Security purchased by the Company pursuant to a Change of Control Offer, state the principal amount (in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000):
 
$
                                   
 
 

Exhibit 5.1
 
 
Aon Corporation
200 East Randolph Street
Chicago, Illinois 60601
 
Re:
                            
Aon Corporation
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-159841)
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
At your request, we have examined the Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-159841) (such registration statement, as amended to the date hereof, including the documents incorporated by reference therein, the "Registration Statement") filed by Aon Corporation (the "Company"), a Delaware corporation, relating to the registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), of the Company's debt securities and certain other classes of securities (the "Securities").  Such Securities include the Company's $600,000,000 3.50% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes"), the Company's $600,000,000 5.00% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "2020 Notes") and the Company's $300,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "2040 Notes," together with the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes, the "Notes"), which are to be issued under an Indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010 (the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee.  The Notes are to be offered and sold pursuant to a Prospectus Supplement dated September 7, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement") and the Prospectus dated June 8, 2009 (the "Base Prospectus") that forms a part of the Company's Registration Statement.
 
We have examined the Registration Statement, the Base Prospectus, the Prospectus Supplement and such other instruments, documents, and records which we deemed relevant and necessary for the basis of our opinion hereinafter expressed.  In such examination, we have assumed the following: (a) the authenticity of original documents and the genuineness of all signatures; (b) the conformity to the originals of all documents submitted to us as copies; and (c) the truth, accuracy and completeness of the information, representations and warranties contained in the records, documents, instruments and certificates we have reviewed.
 
Based on such examination, we are of the opinion that the issuance of the Notes has been duly authorized by all necessary action by the Board of Directors and the authorized officers of the Company and, when such Notes have been duly completed, executed, authenticated and delivered in accordance with the Indenture and sold as contemplated by the Registration Statement, any amendment thereto, the Prospectus and the Prospectus Supplement relating to the
 
 
 
Notes and the agreed consideration therefor has been received by the Company, the Notes will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Company, enforceable in accordance with their terms.
With respect to enforcement, the above opinion is qualified to the extent that enforcement of the Indenture and the Notes may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting enforcement of creditors' rights or by general equity principles.
 
The foregoing opinion is limited to matters arising under the laws of the State of New York and the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.  We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion as an exhibit to the Company's Report on Form 8-K dated September 10, 2010 and the incorporation by reference of this opinion as an exhibit to the above-referenced Registration Statement and to the use of our name wherever it appears in the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto.  In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required by Section 7 of the Act or the related rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission issued thereunder with respect to any part of the Registration Statement, including this opinion as an exhibit or otherwise.

Exhibit 8.1
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
200 East Randolph Street
Chicago, Illinois 60601
 
Re:
                              
Registration Statement on Form S-3
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
We have acted as United States federal income tax counsel to Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), in connection with the preparation and filing by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Act"), of the prospectus supplement, dated September 7, 2010 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), relating to the issuance of certain senior unsecured debt securities.
 
In connection with this opinion letter, we have reviewed the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-159841), filed with the Commission, which includes the Prospectus Supplement, and have examined such records, documents and questions of law, and satisfied ourselves as to such matters of fact, as we have considered relevant and necessary as a basis for this opinion.  Our opinion is based solely upon provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and administrative and judicial interpretations thereof, all as in effect as of the date hereof and all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect.
 
Based upon and subject to the foregoing, the statements made in the Prospectus Supplement under the heading "Certain United States Federal Income Tax Consequences," to the extent that such statements purport to describe matters of United States federal income tax law, accurately describe such matters in all material respects.
 
This opinion letter is limited to the matters stated herein and no opinion is implied or may be inferred beyond the matters expressly stated herein.  This opinion letter is rendered only as of the date hereof based on the law and facts in existence on the date hereof, and we do not undertake, and hereby disclaim, any obligation to advise you of any changes in law or fact, whether or not material, which may be brought to our attention at a later date.
 
 
 
We hereby consent to the filing of this opinion letter with the Commission as Exhibit 8.1 to the Company's Report on Form 8-K dated September 10, 2010 and the incorporation by reference of this opinion as an exhibit to the above-referenced Registration Statement and to the use of our name wherever it appears in the Registration Statement and any amendment thereto.  In giving such consent, we do not thereby admit that we are in the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Act, as amended, or the rules and regulations of the Commission thereunder.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Execution Version
 
 
ESCROW AGREEMENT
dated as of September 10, 2010 (this ""), by and among THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as escrow agent (in such capacity, the ""), AON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), and THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A., a national banking association, as trustee (in such capacity, the "") under an indenture, dated as of September 10, 2010, between the Depositor and the Trustee (the "").
Agreement
Escrow Agent
Depositor
Trustee
Base Indenture
 
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS
:
 
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, dated as of September 7, 2010 (the ""), among the Depositor, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as representatives (the "") of the underwriters named in Schedule A thereto (the ""), the Depositor has agreed to issue $600,000,000 principal amount of its 3.50% Senior Notes due 2015 (the ""), $600,000,000 principal amount of its 5.00% Senior Notes due 2020 (the "") and $300,000,000 principal amount of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2040 (the "" and together with the 2015 Notes and the 2020 Notes, the "");
Underwriting Agreement
Representatives
Underwriters
2015 Notes
2020 Notes
2040 Notes
Securities
 
WHEREAS, the designation, terms and conditions of each series of the Securities has been established pursuant to an Officers' Certificate of the Depositor dated the date hereof (the "" and together with the Base Indenture, the "") in accordance with Section 2.01, Section 2.03 and Section 16.04 of the Base Indenture.
Officers' Certificate
Indenture
 
WHEREAS, the Securities are being offered pursuant to the Depositor's shelf registration statement on Form S-3ASR, Registration No. 333-159841 (the ""), to fund the merger of Hewitt Associates Inc., a Delaware corporation ("") with and into Alps Merger LLC (""), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Depositor (the ""), pursuant to that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 11, 2010, among the Depositor, Alps Merger Corp., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Depositor, Merger LLC and Hewitt (as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time, the "");
Registration Statement
Hewitt
Merger LLC
Hewitt Merger
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, if (i) the Hewitt Merger shall not have been consummated on or prior to March 31, 2011 (the "") or (ii) the Merger Agreement is terminated at any time prior thereto, the Depositor shall be required to redeem the Securities pursuant to the special mandatory redemption provisions set forth in the Indenture.
Redemption Trigger Date
 
WHEREAS, for the benefit of the holders the Securities (the ""), the Depositor has agreed to enter into this Agreement to provide for the deposit of an amount equal to $1,483,251,000.00  (the "") representing the net proceeds from the offering of the Securities (the "") in the Escrow Account (as defined herein) and the disbursement thereof as provided herein; and, accordingly, has, on the date hereof (the ""), directed the Underwriters to deposit the Escrow Amount in the Escrow Account; and
Holders
Escrow Amount
Net Proceeds
Closing Date
 
WHEREAS, the Escrow Agent is willing to act as the Escrow Agent hereunder, and to hold and invest the Escrow Amount in a non-interest-bearing account no. 341440, title:  Aon Corporation Escrow Account  Hewitt Merger, at its offices at 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602 (the "");
Escrow Account
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual agreements contained herein, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the Depositor hereby appoints the Escrow Agent to act as, and the Escrow Agent hereby agrees to act as, escrow agent hereunder and to hold and distribute Escrow Property (as defined herein) in accordance with and subject to the following Instructions and Terms and Conditions, and the parties hereby agree as follows:
 
Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined have the meanings ascribed to them in the Indenture.
 
ARTICLE I.  INSTRUCTIONS:
 
1.  .  On the Closing Date, the Underwriters shall deliver to the Depositor the Net Proceeds.  The Depositor shall, in turn, deliver the Escrow Amount to the Escrow Agent by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Escrow Account.  Upon receipt of the Escrow Amount into the Escrow Account, the Escrow Agent shall give notice of such receipt, in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A, to the Depositor and the Representatives.  The Escrow Amount, plus all interest, dividends and other distributions, payments and earnings thereon and proceeds thereof (collectively the "") received by the Escrow Agent are collectively referred to herein as "," and shall be held by the Escrow Agent in escrow and disbursed in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Escrow Agreement.
Escrow Property
Distributions
Escrow Property
 
2.  .  During the term of this Escrow Agreement, the Escrow Property shall be invested and reinvested by the Escrow Agent in such investments as shall from time to time be selected by the Depositor.  The initial investments selected by the Depositor for the Escrow Property shall be as follows:
Investment and Reinvestment of Escrow Property
 
Wells Fargo Adv Heritage MMF/Select (WFJXX) CUSIP: 94984B793
Allocation: $500 Million
 
Dreyfus Instit Cash Adv/Instit (DADXX)
CUSIP: 26200V104
Allocation: $500 Million
 
BlackRock Liquidity: TempFund Inst (TMPXX)
CUSIP: 09248U619
Allocation: Remainder
 
The Escrow Agent shall have no liability for any loss sustained as a result of any investment selected as indicated in the first sentence of this paragraph or made pursuant to the written instructions of the Depositor, as a result of any liquidation of any investment prior to its maturity or for failure of the Depositor to give the Escrow Agent instructions to invest or reinvest the Escrow Property.  In the absence of written instructions from the Depositor as to re-investment of the Escrow Property, the Escrow Property shall be held uninvested.  Although the Depositor recognizes that it may obtain a broker confirmation or written statement containing comparable information at no additional cost, the Depositor hereby agrees that confirmations of permitted investments are not required to be issued by the Escrow Agent for each month in which a monthly statement is rendered.  No statement need be rendered for the Escrow Account if no activity occurred for such month.
 
3.  .  The Escrow Agent is directed to distribute the Escrow Property in the following manner:
Distribution of Escrow Property
 
(a)  If the Depositor delivers to the Escrow Agent on or prior to the Redemption Trigger Date, a certificate in the form attached hereto as Exhibit B (the ""), executed by an Authorized Person (as defined herein) of the Depositor, the Escrow Agent shall release and deliver the Escrow Property in cash by 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day after the date of the Merger Release Certificate in accordance with the instructions set forth in the Merger Release Certificate.  The Escrow Agent shall confirm in writing to the Depositor that the Escrow Property has been released by it in accordance with the Merger Release Certificate.
Merger Release Certificate
 
(b)  If (i) at any time on or prior to the Redemption Trigger Date the Depositor has delivered and the Escrow Agent has received a certificate in the form attached hereto as Exhibit C (the ""), executed by an Authorized Person of the Depositor certifying that the Merger Agreement has been terminated or (ii) on or prior to the Redemption Trigger Date the Depositor has not delivered and the Escrow Agent has not received the Merger Release Certificate in accordance with paragraph 3(a) above or the Redemption Release Certificate in accordance with clause (i) of this paragraph, the Depositor shall, within five Business Days after (A) the effective date of the termination of the Merger Agreement (the "") or (B) the Redemption Trigger
Redemption Release Certificate
Merger Termination Date
 
Date, as the case may be,  cause a notice of the special mandatory redemption provided for under the Indenture to be mailed, with a copy to the Trustee, to each Holder, providing that all of the outstanding Securities shall be redeemed on the 30
th
 day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the first Business Day thereafter) following the Merger Termination Date (if the Merger Agreement is terminated prior to the Redemption Trigger Date) or on April 30, 2011 (if no Merger Release Certificate is delivered and received on or prior to the Redemption Trigger Date) (the earlier to occur of such date, the "").  Prior to 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Special Redemption Date, the Escrow Agent shall release to the paying agent, as provided for in the Indenture (the ""), an amount in cash from the Escrow Property sufficient to pay the Special Redemption Price for all outstanding Securities on such date (or if the amount in the Escrow Property is insufficient to pay the Special Redemption Price for all outstanding Securities on such date, the Escrow Agent shall release to the Paying Agent the entire Escrow Property in cash).  If the Escrow Agent receives the Redemption Release Certificate pursuant to clause (i) of this paragraph, the Escrow Agent shall confirm in writing to the Depositor that the amounts set forth in the Redemption Release Certificate have been released by it in cash in accordance with this paragraph 3(b).
Special Redemption Date
Paying Agent
 
(c)  If the Depositor is required to effect the special mandatory redemption contemplated by  the Indenture and for any reason the Escrow Property is insufficient to pay the Special Redemption Price to redeem all of the outstanding Securities, the Depositor agrees to pay to the Paying Agent, on or prior to 11:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the Special Redemption Date, by wire transfer in immediately available funds additional cash in an amount that, together with the Escrow Property, is sufficient to redeem all of the outstanding Securities on the Special Redemption Date at the Special Redemption Price.
 
(d)  If any funds remain in the Escrow Account after funds sufficient to pay for the redemption of the Securities on the Special Redemption Date have been released from the Escrow Account to the Paying Agent pursuant to paragraph 3(b) above, then such remaining funds shall, on or prior to the close of business on the Special Redemption Date, or as soon thereafter as is practicable, be promptly released and delivered to the Depositor per written direction.
 
4.  .  The Depositor shall, on the date of this Escrow Agreement, deliver to the Escrow Agent a certificate in the form of Schedule 1 hereto as to the incumbency and specimen signature of each of its officers or other representatives authorized to act for and give and receive notices, requests and instructions on its behalf in connection with this Escrow Agreement (each such officer or other representative, an "").  From time to time, the Depositor may, by delivering to the Escrow Agent a revised certificate in the form of Schedule 1, change the information previously given, but the Escrow Agent shall be entitled to rely conclusively on the then-current schedule until receipt of a superseding schedule.
Authorized Persons
Authorized Person
 
5.  .  The Depositor hereby provides to the Escrow Agent and agrees with and accepts the authorizations, limitations of liability, indemnities, security procedure and other provisions set forth on Schedule II hereto in connection with the Escrow Agent's reliance upon and compliance with instructions and directions sent by such parties via e-mail, facsimile and other similar unsecured electronic methods.
Facsimile/Email Instructions
 
6.  .  Notices, instructions and other communications shall be sent to the Escrow Agent at The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Corporate Trust Administration, 2 North LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, and to the Depositor at 200 East Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attn.: Executive Vice President and General Counsel.
Addresses
 
7.  .  This Escrow Agreement shall terminate upon the disbursement by the Escrow Agent of all Escrow Property in accordance with the terms hereof.
Termination
 
8.  .
Compensation
 
(a)  In respect of the Escrow Agent's services hereunder, the Depositor shall be obligated to pay the Escrow Agent the fees, expenses, charges and other amounts as set forth on the attached Schedule 3.
 
(b)  The Depositor shall additionally be obligated to pay all activity and investment charges as per the Escrow Agent's (or, in the case of execution of investment orders, executing parties') then-current schedule for such charges.
 
(c)  The Depositor shall be responsible for and shall reimburse the Escrow Agent upon demand for all expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Escrow Agent in connection with this Agreement, including, without limitation, the reasonable costs, expenses and disbursements of legal counsel for the Escrow Agent.
 
ARTICLE II.  TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
 
1.  .  The duties, responsibilities and obligations of the Escrow Agent shall be limited to those expressly set forth herein, and no duties, responsibilities or obligations shall be inferred or implied.  The Escrow Agent shall not be subject to, nor required to comply with, nor required to inquire as to the performance of any obligation under, any other agreement to which the Depositor is a party, even though reference thereto may be made herein, or to comply with any direction or instruction (other than those contained herein or delivered in accordance with this Escrow Agreement) from the Depositor or any entity acting on its behalf other than in its capacity as Trustee.  The Escrow Agent shall not be required to, and shall not, expend or risk any of its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder.
Escrow Agent's Duties
 
2.  .  This Agreement is for the exclusive benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors hereunder, and shall not be deemed to give, either express or implied, any legal or equitable right, remedy, or claim to any other entity or person whatsoever, other than the Holders, who shall be a third party beneficiary hereto.
Agreement for Benefit of Parties and Holders
 
3.  .  If at any time the Escrow Agent is served with any judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, writ or other form of judicial or administrative process which in any way affects Escrow Property (including, but not limited to, orders of attachment or garnishment or other forms of levies or injunctions or stays relating to the transfer of Escrow Property), the Escrow Agent is authorized to comply therewith in any manner as it or its legal counsel of its own choosing deems appropriate; and if the Escrow Agent complies with any such judicial or administrative order, judgment, decree, writ or other form of judicial or administrative process, the Escrow Agent shall not be liable to any of the parties hereto or to any other person or entity even though such order, judgment, decree, writ or process may be subsequently modified or vacated or otherwise determined to have been without legal force or effect.
Escrow Agent's Reliance on Orders, Etc
 
4.  .
The Escrow Agent
 
(a)  The Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted or for any loss or injury resulting from its actions or its performance or lack of performance of its duties hereunder in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part.  In no event shall the Escrow Agent be liable (i) for acting in accordance with or relying upon (and shall be fully protected in relying upon) any instruction, notice, demand, certificate or document from the Depositor, any entity acting on behalf of the Depositor or any other person or entity which it reasonably believes to be genuine, (ii) for any indirect, consequential, punitive or special damages, even if advised of the possibility thereof, (iii) for the acts or omissions of its nominees, correspondents, designees, subagents or subcustodians selected by it in good faith, or (iv) for an amount in excess of the value of the Escrow Property.
 
(b)  As security for the due and punctual performance of any and all of the Depositor's obligations to the Escrow Agent hereunder, now or hereafter arising, the Depositor, hereby pledges, assigns and grants to the Escrow Agent a continuing security interest in, and a lien on and right of setoff against, the Escrow Property and all Distributions thereon, investments thereof or additions thereto (whether such additions are the result of deposits by Depositor or the investment of Escrow Property or otherwise).  If any fees, expenses or costs incurred by, or any obligations owed to, the Escrow Agent hereunder are not promptly paid when due, the Escrow Agent may reimburse itself therefor from the Escrow Property, and may sell, convey or otherwise dispose of any Escrow Property for such purpose.  The security interest and setoff rights of the Escrow Agent shall at all times be valid, perfected and enforceable by the Escrow Agent against the Depositor and all third parties in accordance with the terms of this Escrow Agreement.
 
(c)  The Escrow Agent may at the expense of the Depositor, consult with legal counsel as to any matter relating to this Escrow Agreement, and the Escrow Agent shall not incur any liability in acting in good faith in accordance with any advice from such counsel.
(d)  In no event shall the Escrow Agent be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Escrow Agent shall use reasonable efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
5.  .  Unless otherwise specifically set forth herein, the Escrow Agent shall proceed as soon as practicable to collect any checks or other collection items at any time deposited hereunder.  All such collections shall be subject to the Escrow Agent's usual collection practices or terms regarding items received by the Escrow Agent for deposit or collection.  The Escrow Agent shall not be required, or have any duty, to notify anyone of any payment or maturity under the terms of any instrument deposited hereunder, nor to take any legal action to enforce payment of any check, note or security deposited hereunder or to exercise any right or privilege which may be afforded to the holder of any such security.
Collections
 
6.  .  The Escrow Agent shall provide to the Depositor statements (not less frequently than monthly) reflecting activity in the Escrow Account for the preceding period.  No statement need be provided for periods in which no Escrow Account activity occurred.  Each such statement shall be deemed to be correct and final upon receipt thereof by the Depositor unless the Escrow Agent is notified in writing to the contrary within thirty (30) Business Days of the date of such statement.
Statements
 
7.  .  The Escrow Agent shall not be responsible in any respect for the form, execution, validity, value or genuineness of documents or securities deposited hereunder, or for any description therein, or for the identity, authority or rights of persons executing or delivering or purporting to execute or deliver any such document, security or endorsement.
Limitation of Escrow Agent's Responsibility
 
8.  .  Notices, instructions or other communications shall be in writing and shall be given to the address set forth in the "Addresses" provision herein (or to such other address as may be substituted therefor by written notification to the other parties).  Notices to the Escrow Agent shall be deemed to be given when actually received by the Escrow Agent's Escrow Unit.  The Escrow Agent is authorized to comply with and rely upon any notices, instructions or other communications reasonably believed by it to have been sent or given by the Depositor or by a person or persons authorized by the Depositor, including persons identified on Authorized Persons schedules delivered pursuant to Section 4 of the Instructions.  Whenever under the terms hereof the time for giving a notice or performing an act falls upon a Saturday, Sunday, or banking holiday, such time shall be extended to the next day on which the Escrow Agent is open for business.
Notices
 
9.  .  The Depositor shall be liable for and shall reimburse and indemnify the Escrow Agent and hold the Escrow Agent, and the Escrow Agent's directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns, harmless from and against any and all claims, losses, liabilities, costs, disbursements, damages or expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses and court costs) (collectively, "") arising from or in connection with or related to this Escrow Agreement or being the Escrow Agent hereunder (including but not limited to Losses incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with its successful defense, in whole or in part, of any claim of gross negligence or willful misconduct on its part), , , that nothing contained herein shall require the Escrow Agent to be indemnified for Losses caused by its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Indemnity
Losses
provided
however
 
10.  .
Removal and Resignation of Escrow Agent; Successor Escrow Agent
 
(a)  The Depositor may remove the Escrow Agent at any time by giving to the Escrow Agent thirty (30) calendar days' prior notice in writing signed by the Depositor.  The Escrow Agent may resign at any time by giving thirty (30) calendar days' prior written notice thereof.
 
(b)  Within ten (10) calendar days after giving the foregoing notice of removal to the Escrow Agent or receiving the foregoing notice of resignation from the Escrow Agent, the Depositor shall appoint a successor Escrow Agent.  If a successor Escrow Agent has not accepted such appointment by the end of such thirty (30) day period, the Escrow
 
Agent may, in its sole discretion, deliver the Escrow Property to the Depositor at the address provided herein or may apply to a court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Escrow Agent or for other appropriate relief, and thereafter be relieved of all further duties and obligations as Escrow Agent hereunder.  The costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred by the Escrow Agent in connection with such proceeding shall be paid by, the Depositor.
(c)  Upon receipt of the identity of the successor Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall either deliver the Escrow Property then held hereunder to the successor Escrow Agent, less the amount of fees, costs and expenses or other obligations owed to the Escrow Agent, or hold such Escrow Property (or any portion thereof), pending distribution, until all such fees, costs and expenses or other obligations are paid.
 
(d)  Upon delivery of the Escrow Property to the Depositor, or in accordance with the instructions of a court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to subclause (c) above, or to successor Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall have no further duties, responsibilities or obligations hereunder.
 
11.  .
Escrow Agent's Obligations in the Event of Ambiguities, Conflicting Claims, Etc
 
(a)  In the event of any ambiguity or uncertainty hereunder or in any notice, instruction or other communication received by the Escrow Agent hereunder, the Escrow Agent may, in its sole discretion, refrain from taking any action other than retain possession of the Escrow Property, unless and until the Escrow Agent receives written instructions, signed by the Depositor, which eliminates such ambiguity or uncertainty.
 
(b)  In the event of any dispute between or conflicting claims by or among the Depositor and/or any other person or entity with respect to any Escrow Property, the Escrow Agent shall be entitled, in its sole discretion, to refuse to comply with any and all claims, demands or instructions with respect to such Escrow Property so long as such dispute or conflict shall continue, and the Escrow Agent shall not be or become liable in any way to any Depositor for failure or refusal to comply with such conflicting claims, demands or instructions.  The Escrow Agent shall be entitled to refuse to act until, in its sole discretion, either (i) such conflicting or adverse claims or demands shall have been determined by a final order, judgment or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, which order, judgment or decree is not subject to appeal, or settled by agreement between the conflicting parties as evidenced in a writing satisfactory to the Escrow Agent, or (ii) the Escrow Agent shall have received security or an indemnity satisfactory to it sufficient to hold it harmless from and against any and all Losses which it may incur by reason of so acting.  The Escrow Agent may, in addition, elect, in its sole discretion, to commence an interpleader action or seek other judicial relief or orders as it may deem, in its sole discretion, necessary.  The costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses) incurred in connection with such proceeding shall be paid by, and shall be deemed a joint and several obligation of, the Depositor.
 
12.  .  This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, enforced and administered in accordance with the internal substantive laws (and not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York.  Each of the parties hereto hereby submits to the personal jurisdiction of courts located within the City and State of New York or elsewhere as the Escrow Agent may select.  Each of the parties hereto hereby waives the right to trial by jury and to assert counterclaims in any such proceedings.  To the extent that in any jurisdiction any party hereto may be entitled to claim, for itself or its assets, immunity from suit, execution, attachment (whether before or after judgment) or other legal process, each such party hereby irrevocably agrees not to claim, and hereby waives, such immunity.  Each of the parties hereto waives personal service of process and consents to service of process by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested, directed to it at the address last specified for notices hereunder, and such service shall be deemed completed ten (10) calendar days after the same is so mailed.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Waiver of Right to Trial by Jury
 
13.  .  Except as otherwise permitted herein, this Escrow Agreement may be modified only by a written amendment signed by all the parties hereto, and no waiver of any provision hereof shall be effective unless expressed in a writing signed by the party to be charged.
Amendments, Etc
 
14.  .  The rights and remedies conferred upon the parties hereto shall be cumulative, and the exercise or waiver of any such right or remedy shall not preclude or inhibit the exercise of any additional rights or remedies.  The waiver of any right or remedy hereunder shall not preclude the subsequent exercise of such right or
Remedies Cumulative
 
remedy.
 
15.  .  Each of the parties hereto represents and warrants (a) that this Escrow Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered on its behalf and constitutes its legal, valid and binding obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, except as enforceability may be limited by applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other debtor relief laws and that certain equitable remedies may not be available regardless of whether enforcement is sought in equity or at law, and (b) that the execution, delivery and performance of this Escrow Agreement by it do not and will not violate any applicable law or regulation.
Representations and Warranties
 
16.  .  The invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall in no way affect the validity, legality or enforceability of any other provision; and if any provision is held to be enforceable as a matter of law, the other provisions shall not be affected thereby and shall remain in full force and effect.
Illegality, Etc
 
17.  .  This Agreement shall constitute the entire agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter and supersedes all prior oral or written agreements in regard thereto.
Entire Agreement
 
18.  .  Section 8 of the Instructions and Sections 8-9, 12 and 21-22 of the Terms and Conditions of this Escrow Agreement shall survive termination of this Escrow Agreement and/or the resignation or removal of the Escrow Agent.
Survival of Certain Provisions
 
19.  .  The headings contained in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall have no effect on the interpretation or operation hereof.
Headings
 
20.  .  This Escrow Agreement may be executed by each of the parties hereto in any number of counterparts, each of which counterpart, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all such counterparts shall together constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
21.  .  Except as provided in paragraph 4(b) of the Terms and Conditions above, the Escrow Agent does not have any interest in the Escrow Property but is serving as escrow holder only and having only possession thereof.  The Depositor shall be obligated to and shall pay or reimburse the Escrow Agent upon request for any transfer taxes or other taxes relating to the Escrow Property incurred in connection herewith and shall indemnify and hold harmless the Escrow Agent for any amounts that it is obligated to pay in the way of such taxes.  Any payments of income from this Escrow Account shall be subject to withholding regulations then in force with respect to United States taxes.  The Depositor will provide the Escrow Agent with appropriate W-9 forms for tax I.D. or number certifications, and will inform the Escrow Agent as to the proper allocation of income in respect of the Escrow Property for annual and periodic tax and other reporting purposes.  It is understood that the Escrow Agent shall be responsible for income reporting only with respect to income earned on investment of funds which are a part of the Escrow Property and is not responsible for any other reporting.
Certain Tax Matters
 
22.  .  In order to comply with laws, rules, regulations and executive orders in effect from time to time applicable to banking institutions, including those relating to the funding of terrorist activities and money laundering  and the Customer Identification Program ("") requirements under the USA PATRIOT Act and its implementing regulations, pursuant to which the Escrow Agent must obtain, verify and record information that allows the Escrow Agent to identify customers (""), the Escrow Agent is required to obtain, verify and record certain information relating to individuals and entities which maintain a business relationship with the Escrow Agent.  Accordingly, the Depositor agrees to provide to the Escrow Agent upon its request from time to time such identifying information and documentation as may be available for such party in order to enable the Escrow Agent to comply with Applicable Law, including, but not limited to, information as to name, physical address, tax identification number and other information that will help the Escrow Agent to identify and verify the Depositor such as organizational documents, certificates of good standing, licenses to do business or other pertinent identifying information.  The Depositor understands and agrees that the Escrow Agent cannot open the Escrow Account unless and until the Escrow Agent verifies its identity in accordance with its CIP.
Patriot Act Compliance, Etc
CIP
Applicable Law
 
23.  .  Any corporation or other company into which the Escrow Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation or other company resulting from
Successors and Assigns of Escrow Agent
 
any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Escrow Agent shall be a party, or any corporation or other company succeeding to the business of the Escrow Agent shall be the successor of the Escrow Agent hereunder without the execution or filing of any paper with any party hereto or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, except where an instrument of transfer or assignment is required by law to effect such succession, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Escrow Agreement to be executed by a duly authorized officer as of the day and year first written above.
 
 
AON CORPORATION
 
 
 
 
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
, as Escrow Agent
 
 
 
 
Acknowledged by:, as Trustee
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST COMPANY, N.A.
 
 
Set forth below are the Authorized Persons of the Depositor pursuant to Section 4 of the Escrow Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, among Aon Corporation, The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.
 
 
Depositor Authorization, Limitation of Liability and Indemnity. 
The Depositor hereby authorizes the Escrow Agent and its affiliates (the "") to rely upon and comply with instructions and directions sent by it via e-mail, facsimile and other similar unsecured electronic methods (but excluding on-line communications systems covered by a separate agreement (such as the Bank's Inform or CA$H-Register Plus system) ("")) ("") by persons reasonably believed by the Bank to be authorized to give instructions and directions on behalf of the Depositor.  Except as set forth below with respect to funds transfers, the Bank shall have no duty or obligation to verify or confirm that the person who sent such instructions or directions is an Authorized Person or a person authorized to give instructions or directions on behalf of the Depositor (other than to verify that the signature on a facsimile is the signature of an Authorized Person or a person authorized to give instructions and directions on behalf of the Depositor); and the Bank shall have no liability for any losses, liabilities, costs or expenses incurred or sustained by the Depositor as a result of such reliance upon or compliance with such instructions or directions.  The Depositor agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of Electronic Methods to submit instructions and directions to the Bank, including without limitation the risk of the Bank acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk of interception and misuse by third parties.
Bank
On-Line Communications Systems
Electronic Methods
 
Funds Transfer Security Procedures
.  With respect to any "funds transfer," as defined in Article 4-A of the Uniform Commercial Code, the following security procedure will apply:  The Depositor's payment instruction is to include the name and (in the case of a facsimile) signature of the person initiating the funds transfer request.  If the name is listed as an Authorized Person on a certificate in the form of Schedule 1 hereto delivered pursuant to the Agreement, the Bank will confirm the instructions by telephone call to any person listed as an Authorized Person, who may be the same person who initiated the instruction.  When calling back, the Bank will request from the relevant Depositor's staff member his or her name.  If the name is listed in the Escrow Agent's records as an Authorized Person, the Bank will confirm the instructions with respect to amount, names and numbers of accounts to be charged or credited and other relevant reference information.  Each Depositor acknowledges that the Bank has offered such Depositor other security procedures that are more secure and are commercially reasonable for such Depositor, and that such Depositor has nonetheless chosen the procedures described in this paragraph.  Each Depositor agrees to be bound by any payment order issued in its name, whether or not authorized, that is accepted by the Bank in accordance with the above procedures.  When instructed to credit or pay a party by both name and a unique numeric or alpha-numeric identifier (e.g. ABA number or account number), the Bank, and any other bank participating in the funds transfer, may rely solely on the unique identifier, even if it identifies a party different than the party named.  This applies to beneficiaries as well as any intermediary bank.  Each Depositor agrees to be bound by the rules of any funds transfer network used in connection with any payment order accepted by the Bank hereunder.
 
Authorization
.  This authorization shall remain in full force and effect until the earlier of termination of this Agreement or the date it is canceled, revoked or amended by written notice received by the Escrow Agent; and replaces and supersedes any previous authorization from a Depositor to the Bank relating to the giving of instructions by facsimile, e-mail or other similar Electronic Methods (but excluding On-Line Communications Systems) in relation to this Agreement, and is in addition to all other authorizations.  Notwithstanding any revocation, cancellation or amendment of this authorization, any action taken by the Bank pursuant to this authorization prior to the Bank's actual receipt and acknowledgement of a notice of revocation, cancellation or amendment shall not be affected by such notice.
 
Indemnity
.  Each Depositor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Bank against any and all claims, losses, damages liabilities, judgments, costs and expenses (including reasonable attorneys' fees) (collectively, "") incurred or sustained by the Bank as a result of or in connection with the Bank's reliance upon and compliance with instructions or directions given by such Depositor by Electronic Methods, provided, however, that such Losses have not arisen from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Bank, it being understood that the failure of the Bank to verify or confirm that the person giving the instructions or directions, is, in fact, an Authorized Person does not constitute gross negligence or willful misconduct.
Losses
 
Representation
.  Each Depositor hereby represents and warrants to the Bank that this authorization is
 
properly given and has been duly approved by a resolution of its Board of Directors or if the Board of Directors no longer exists, an Authorized Person having power and authority to bind such Depositor.
The Depositor
shall be responsible for the payment to the Escrow Agent of the fees, expenses and charges set forth below.
 
 
This one time charge is payable at the time of the closing and includes the review and execution of the agreement and all documents submitted in support thereof and establishment of accounts.
 
 
An annual fee of $750 will cover the duties and responsibilities related to account administration and servicing, which may include maintenance of accounts on various systems, custody and securities servicing, reporting and online access via INFORM.  This fee is payable at closing of each escrow account, in advance for the year and shall not be prorated.
 
Investment Compensation
 
With respect to investments in money market mutual funds for which the Escrow Agent or its affiliates provide shareholder services, the Escrow Agent (or its affiliates) may also receive and retain additional fees from the mutual funds (or their affiliates) for shareholder services as set forth in the Authorization and Direction to BNY Mellon to Invest Cash Balances in Money Market Mutual Funds.
 
BNY Mellon will charge a $25.00 transaction fee for each purchase, sale, or redemption of securities other than the aforementioned Money Market Mutual Funds.
 
Counsel Fees
 
If counsel is retained by the Escrow Agent, a fee covering the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel for its services, including review of governing documents, communication with members of the closing party (including representatives of the purchaser, investment banker(s), attorney(s) and the Escrow Agent), attendance at meetings and the closing, and such other services as the Escrow Agent may deem reasonably necessary.  The counsel fee will be the actual amount of the reasonable fees and expenses charged by counsel and is payable at closing.  Should closing not occur, the Company would still be responsible for payment of reasonable counsel fees and expenses.
 
Miscellaneous Fees
 
The fees for performing extraordinary or other services not contemplated at the time of the execution of the transaction or not specifically covered elsewhere in this schedule will be commensurate with the service to be provided and subject to the Depositor's prior approval.  These extraordinary services may include, but are not limited to:  proxy dissemination/tabulation, customized reporting and/or procedures, electronic account access, etc.  Counsel, accountants, special agents and others will be charged at the actual amount of fees and expenses billed.
 
Out-of-Pocket Expenses
 
Additional out-of-pocket expenses may include, but are not limited to, telephone; facsimile; courier; copying; postage; supplies; expenses of foreign depositaries; and expenses of the Escrow Agent's representative(s) and counsel for attending special meetings.  Fees and expenses of the Escrow Agent's representatives and counsel will be charged at the actual amount of fees and expenses charged and all other expenses will be charged at cost.
September 10, 2010
 
Aon Corporation 200 East Randolph Street Chicago, Illinois 60601
 
Re:
         
Receipt of Escrow Amount
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as escrow agent (the "") under the Escrow Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010 (the ""), among Aon Corporation (the ""), the Escrow Agent and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""), hereby acknowledges receipt pursuant to paragraph 1 of Article I of the Agreement of the aggregate amount of $1,483,251,000.00 in the form of cash by wire transfer in immediately available funds, which amount represents payment of the Escrow Amount under the Agreement.
Escrow Agent
Agreement
Company
Trustee
 
Reference is made to the Escrow Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, by and among Aon Corporation (the ""), The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Escrow Agent and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the "").  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
Depositor
Agreement
 
The undersigned, , in his or her capacity as of the Depositor, does hereby certify on behalf of the Depositor that the Hewitt Merger will occur following the release of the Escrow Property from the Escrow Account.
                                                 
                                                  
 
The Depositor hereby directs the Escrow Agent to release and deliver all amounts in the Escrow Account in immediately available funds by 10:00 a.m. (New York City time) on the second Business Day after the date of this certificate as follows:
 
 
 
 
Reference is made to the Escrow Agreement, dated as of September 10, 2010, by and among Aon Corporation (the ""), The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Escrow Agent and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement.
Depositor
Agreement
 
The undersigned, , in his or her capacity as of the Depositor, does hereby certify on behalf of the Depositor that the Merger Agreement has been terminated and the Depositor is required to redeem the Securities pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture. Accordingly, the Depositor directs the Escrow Agent to release and deliver the Escrow Property to the Paying Agent on            , 20           in connection with the special mandatory redemption of the Securities.
                                                 
                                                  
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
News from Aon
 
CHICAGO, IL  September 7, 2010
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) today announced that it has agreed to sell $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes in an underwritten public offering.
 
Of these notes, $600 million will mature on September 30, 2015 and bear interest at a fixed annual rate of 3.50 percent; $600 million will mature on September 30, 2020 and bear interest at a fixed annual rate of 5.00 percent;  and $300 million will mature on September 30, 2040 and bear interest at a fixed annual rate of 6.25 percent. The offering is expected to close on September 10, 2010.
 
Net proceeds from the offering are intended to be used in connection with Aon's merger transaction with Hewitt Associates, Inc., which was announced on July 12, 2010.   Upon closing of the offering, the net proceeds will be deposited into an escrow account to be held until the merger transaction is consummated or terminated, in which case the escrowed funds will be used to fund in part a mandatory redemption of the notes.  The notes are being issued in lieu of drawing on the senior bridge term loan credit agreement, which Aon executed on August 13, 2010.
 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. served as joint book-running managers, and Aon Benfield Securities, Inc., ANZ Securities, Inc., Loop Capital Markets LLC, RBC Capital Markets Corporation, UBS Securities LLC and Wells Fargo Securities, LLC served as co-managers in the offering.
 
This offering was made pursuant to a prospectus supplement to Aon's prospectus dated June 8, 2009, filed as part of its effective shelf registration statement relating to these securities. This press release shall not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy the securities described therein, nor shall there be any sale of these securities in any state or jurisdiction in which such an offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state or other jurisdiction.
 
When available, copies of the final prospectus supplement and accompanying prospectus relating to these securities may be obtained by contacting  Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, One Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10010, Attention: Prospectus Department or by telephone at 1-800-221-1037; Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, 180 Varick Street New York, New York 10014, Attention: Prospectus Department or by telephone at 1-866-718-1649;  Banc of America Securities LLC, 100 West 33
rd
 Street, 3
rd
 Floor, New York, New York 10001, Attention: Prospectus Department or by telephone at 1-800-294-1322; Deutsche Bank Securities
 
 
Inc., 100 Plaza One, Floor 2, Jersey City, New Jersey 07311-3901 or by telephone at 1-800-503-4611; or RBS Securities Inc., 600 Washington Blvd., Stamford, Connecticut 06901 or by telephone at 1-866-884-2071.
 
About Aon
 
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) is a leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 36,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the proposed merger will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule contemplated by the parties; the failure of stockholders of Hewitt to approve the proposal to adopt the merger agreement; the failure of the stockholders of Aon to approve the proposal to approve the issuance of shares of Aon common stock to Hewitt stockholders in the merger; the loss of key Aon or Hewitt employees following the merger; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed merger making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships with customers, partners and others; the possibility that the proposed merger does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon and Hewitt do business around the world; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could impact revenue and expense; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; changes in the funding status of Aon's various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes; Aon's ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, and the ability to achieve those cost savings; the impact on risk and insurance services commission revenues of changes in the availability of, and the premium insurance carriers charge for, insurance and reinsurance products, including the impact on premium rates and market capacity attributable to catastrophic events; the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws; the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from error and omissions claims against Aon or Hewitt; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt retain existing clients and attract new businesses; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that Aon and Hewitt currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt operate, particularly given the global scope of Aon's and Hewitt's businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt do business; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits to Aon of the Benfield merger. Further information concerning Aon, Hewitt, and their business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's and Hewitt's financial results, is contained in Aon's and Hewitt's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). See Aon's and Hewitt's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Annual Reports to Stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively, and other public filings of Aon and Hewitt with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. Neither Aon nor Hewitt undertakes, and each of them expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.
 
 


