FILE:AON/AON-8K-20100816084354.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
x
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.
                                         
Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Term Loan Agreement and Bridge Credit Agreement
 
On August 13, 2010, Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Aon"), entered into a Three-Year Term Credit Agreement (the "Term Loan Agreement") with Credit Suisse AG ("CS AG"), as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Term Loan Lenders"), Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent ("Morgan Stanley"), Bank of America, N.A. ("Bank of America"), Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. ("Deutsche Bank") and RBS Securities Inc. ("RBS"), as co-documentation agents, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC ("CS USA") and Morgan Stanley, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and RBS as co-arrangers, pursuant to which, subject to the conditions set forth in the Term Loan Agreement, the Term Loan Lenders committed to provide an unsecured term loan financing of up to $1.0 billion (the "Term Loan Facility").  Concurrently with entering into the Term Loan Agreement, Aon entered into a Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement (the "Bridge Credit Agreement" and, together with the Term Loan Agreement, the "Credit Agreements") with CS AG, as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto (collectively, the "Bridge Lenders"), Morgan Stanley, as syndication agent, Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and RBS, as co-documentation agents, CS USA and Morgan Stanley, as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, Deutsche Bank and RBS as co-arrangers, pursuant to which, subject to the conditions set forth in the Bridge Credit Agreement, the Bridge Lenders committed to provide an unsecured bridge financing of up to $1.5 billion (the "Bridge Facility" and, together with the Term Loan Facility, the "Facilities").  The Term Loan Agreement and Bridge Credit Agreement contain the negotiated terms and conditions originally contemplated in the Debt Commitment Letter
, dated as of July 11, 2010, among Aon, CS USA, CS AG and Morgan Stanley, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K, dated as of July 11, 2010 and filed by Aon on July 12, 2010.
 
Aon has the option to issue up to $1.5 billion in senior notes in lieu of all or a portion of the drawing under the Bridge Facility or to refinance all or a portion of the Bridge Facility at a later date. Aon currently expects to issue senior notes in lieu of drawing on the Bridge Facility.  The proceeds from these borrowings or issuances will be used by Aon to pay all or a portion of the cash consideration to be paid in the merger (the "Merger") of Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Hewitt"), with and into Alps Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and wholly owned subsidiary of Aon ("Merger Sub") pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 11, 2010, among Aon, Merger Sub, Alps Merger LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and wholly owned subsidiary of Aon, and Hewitt (the "Merger Agreement"), to refinance existing indebtedness of Hewitt and its subsidiaries and to pay related fees and expenses. The Credit Agreements provide, among other things, that the closings of the Term Loan Facility and the Bridge Facility are subject to certain conditions.
 
Facilities
 
The Term Loan Facility will mature three years following the closing date of the Merger and the Bridge Facility will mature 364 days following the closing date of the Merger. The Facilities will rank senior to or pari passu with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness of Aon.
The unused commitments under the Credit Agreements will terminate upon the first to occur of (i) 5:00 p.m., New York City time on March 31, 2011 or (ii) the abandonment or termination of the Merger Agreement or the public announcement by either Aon or Hewitt of its intention not to proceed with the Merger.
 
Interest Rate
 
Borrowings under the Facilities will bear interest, at Aon's option, at a rate equal to either (a) the rate for eurodollar deposits as reflected on the applicable Reuters Screen LIBOR01 for the interest period relevant to such borrowing (adjusted for any statutory reserve requirements for eurocurrency liabilities) (the "Eurodollar Rate"), plus the applicable margin or (b) the highest of (i) the rate of interest publicly announced by CS AG as its prime rate, (ii) the federal funds effective rate from time to time plus 0.5% and (iii) the one month Eurodollar Rate plus 1.0%, plus the applicable margin. The Eurodollar Rate for borrowings under the Bridge Facility will be subject to a floor of 1.00%. The applicable margin for borrowings under the Facilities may change depending on Aon's achievement of certain ratings, and, from the 90
th
 day after the closing date of the Merger, the applicable margin for borrowings under the Bridge Facility will also be determined with reference to a credit default swap spread.
 
Prepayments and Redemptions
 
Subject to certain exceptions, the commitments in respect of the Bridge Facility under the Bridge Credit Agreement will be permanently reduced, and after the closing date, the outstanding loans under the Bridge Facility will be prepaid:
 
                 
with the net cash proceeds of the sale or other disposition of any property or assets outside the ordinary course of business (including, without limitation, insurance and condemnation proceeds) (subject to certain exceptions);
 
                 
with the net cash proceeds of issuances of equity interests (subject to certain exceptions); and
 
                 
with the net cash proceeds received from the incurrence of certain indebtedness for borrowed money (subject to certain exceptions).
 
Prior to the closing date of the Merger, commitments under the Facilities may be reduced in whole or in part at the election of Aon without premium or penalty. Following the closing date of the Merger, the Facilities may be prepaid in whole or in part at the election of Aon without premium or penalty; provided that loans bearing interest with reference to the Eurodollar Rate will be prepayable only on the last day of the related interest period unless Aon pays any related breakage costs.
 
Conditions Precedent
 
The Credit Agreements include customary conditions to funding, including, among others, the absence of a "material adverse effect" on Aon or Hewitt, in each case, consistent with the equivalent definition in the Merger Agreement, consummation of the Merger and the absence of any amendment or modification to the Merger Agreement materially adverse to CS USA or
Morgan Stanley (collectively, the "Arrangers") of the Facilities, the lenders thereunder or Aon unless approved by the Arrangers, the delivery of financial information and other customary closing deliveries, including delivery by the chief financial officer of Aon of a solvency certificate in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers (or, at Aon's option, a solvency opinion from an independent investment bank or valuation firm of nationally recognized standing, such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers), the receipt of minimum debt ratings of BBB- (with no negative outlook) from S&P and Baa3 (with no negative outlook) from Moody's, repayment of certain Hewitt indebtedness and a pro forma ratio of total indebtedness to EBITDA of not in excess of 3.0 to 1.0 (giving effect to the Merger on a pro forma basis).
 
Covenants and Events of Default
 
The Facilities contain a number of covenants, including limitations on the following (subject in each case to materiality thresholds and certain other exceptions):
 
                 
subsidiary indebtedness, guarantees and hedging agreements;
 
                 
liens;
 
                 
dividends and share redemptions and repurchases;
 
                 
inconsistent agreements;
 
                 
asset sales;
 
                 
mergers and consolidations;
 
                 
ERISA;
 
                 
changes in fiscal year; and
 
                 
transactions with affiliates.
 
In addition, the Bridge Facility includes a limitation on acquisitions and investments, subject to certain exceptions, and a limitation on restricted payments that is more restrictive than the corresponding covenant in the Term Loan Facility, subject to certain exceptions.
 
Each Facility also includes a maximum consolidated leverage ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1.0 and minimum interest coverage ratio of not less than 4.0 to 1.0 (with add-backs permitted to consolidated EBITDA for fees and expenses and other one-time charges related to the merger, subject to certain caps).
 
The Facilities also contain certain customary events of default, including relating to non-payment, breach of covenants, cross-default to the other facility, cross-acceleration, bankruptcy and change of control.
 
The foregoing summaries of the Term Loan Agreement and Bridge Credit Agreement do not purport to be complete descriptions and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the
terms and conditions of the Term Loan Agreement and Bridge Credit Agreement, copies of which are attached as Exhibit 10.1 and 10.2 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Amendment to Existing Domestic Credit Agreement
 
On August 13, 2010, Aon, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent ("Citibank"), and the lenders party thereto entered into Amendment No. 1 (the "Amendment") to the $400,000,000 Three-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of December 4, 2009, among Aon, Citibank, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, and the lenders party thereto (the "Existing Domestic Credit Agreement").
 
The Amendment modifies certain provisions of the Existing Domestic Credit Agreement for consistency with the Term Loan Agreement and the Bridge Credit Agreement and to accommodate the Term Loan Facility, the Bridge Facility (and any issuance of senior notes in lieu of all or a portion of the Bridge Facility), the Merger and the transactions contemplated thereby.  Such modifications include permitting add-backs to consolidated EBITDA for fees and expenses and other one-time charges related to the Merger (subject to certain caps), permitting restrictions set forth in existing Hewitt indebtedness for a specified period of time, modifying the maximum consolidated leverage ratio to adjust for the effects of any senior note issuance prior to consummation of the Merger, as well as certain other conforming changes and updates.
 
The foregoing summary of the Amendment does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions of the Amendment, a copy of which is attached as Exhibit 10.3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 2.03.
                                        
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
 
The information set forth above in Item 1.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the proposed transaction will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule contemplated by the parties; the failure of stockholders of Hewitt to approve the proposal to adopt the merger agreement; the failure of the stockholders of Aon to approve the proposal to approve the issuance of shares of Aon common stock to Hewitt stockholders in the merger; the loss of key Aon or Hewitt employees following the merger; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships with customers, partners and others; the possibility that the proposed
transaction does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon and Hewitt do business around the world; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could impact revenue and expense; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; changes in the funding status of Aon's various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes; Aon's ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, and the ability to achieve those cost savings; the impact on risk and insurance services commission revenues of changes in the availability of, and the premium insurance carriers charge for, insurance and reinsurance products, including the impact on premium rates and market capacity attributable to catastrophic events; the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws; the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from error and omissions claims against Aon or Hewitt; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt retain existing clients and attract new businesses; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that Aon and Hewitt currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt operate, particularly given the global scope of Aon's and Hewitt's businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt do business; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits to Aon of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning Aon, Hewitt, and their business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's and Hewitt's financial results, is contained in Aon's and Hewitt's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  See Aon's and Hewitt's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Annual Reports to Stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively, and other public filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. Neither Aon nor Hewitt undertakes, and each of them expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.
 
Additional Information
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy our securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval.  This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving Aon and Hewitt.  In connection with the proposed merger, Aon filed with the SEC a registration statement on Form S-4 that included a preliminary joint proxy statement of Aon and Hewitt that also constitutes a preliminary prospectus of Aon, and each of the companies may be filing with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed transaction. At the appropriate time, Aon and Hewitt will mail the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed merger to their respective
stockholders. Before making any voting or investment decision, investors and stockholders are urged to read carefully in their entirety the definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction and any other relevant documents filed by either Aon or Hewitt with the SEC when they become available because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction.  You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov), by accessing Aon's website at www.aon.com under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the link "SEC Filings" and from Aon by directing a request to Aon at Aon Corporation, 200 E. Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: Investor Relations, and by accessing Hewitt's website at www.hewitt.com under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the link "Reports & SEC Filings" and from Hewitt by directing a request to Hewitt at Hewitt Associates, Inc., 100 Half Day Road, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
Aon and Hewitt and their respective directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about Aon's directors and executive officers in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 7, 2010. You can find information about Hewitt's directors and executive officers in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on December 16, 2009. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Aon and Hewitt using the contact information above.
 
Item 9.01.
                                         
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)-(c)
               
Not applicable.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits:
 
10.1
           
Three-Year Term Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, among Aon Corporation, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC  and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as co-arrangers
 
10.2
           
Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, among Aon Corporation, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC  and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as co-arrangers
10.3
           
Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 4, 2009, among Aon, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, and the lenders party thereto, among Aon Corporation, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, dated as of August 13, 2010
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
10.1
           
Three-Year Term Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, among Aon Corporation, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC  and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as co-arrangers
 
10.2
           
Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, among Aon Corporation, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, the lenders party thereto, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as syndication agent, Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc., as co-documentation agents, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC  and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners, and Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. as co-arrangers
 
10.3
           
Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement, dated as of December 4, 2009, among Aon, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as syndication agent, and the lenders party thereto, among Aon Corporation, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the lenders party thereto, dated as of August 13, 2010

Exhibit 10.1
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
This Three-Year Term Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, is among Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation, the Lenders (as defined below), and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent.
 
A.            In connection with the Transactions (as defined below), the Borrower has requested the Lenders to make financial accommodations to it in the aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000,000; and
 
B.            The Lenders are willing to extend such financial accommodations on the terms and conditions set forth below.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements made herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01As used in this Agreement:
.  Definitions. 
 
"" is defined in Section 10.02(b).
Activities
 
"" means Credit Suisse AG in its capacity as contractual representative of the Lenders pursuant to Article 10, and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, and any successor Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to Article 10.
Administrative Agent
 
"" shall mean an administrative questionnaire in a form provided by the Administrative Agent which shall include, without limitation, a designation by the assignee of one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, the Company or their respective Subsidiaries, related parties or securities) will be made available, who will comply with Section 9.11 of this Agreement and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including federal and state securities laws.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means a borrowing of Loans, (a) advanced by the Lenders on the same Borrowing Date, or (b) converted or continued by the Lenders on the same date of conversion or continuation, consisting, in either case, of the aggregate amount of the several Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, for the same Interest Period.
Advance
 
"" is defined in Section 2.19.
Affected Lender
"" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person.  A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if the controlling Person owns 10% or more of any class of voting securities (or other ownership interests) of the controlled Person or possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the controlled Person, whether through ownership of stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"" means the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and each Co-Arranger and "" means all of them.
Agent
Agents
 
"" is defined in Section 10.02(b).
Agent's Group
 
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments of all the Lenders, as reduced from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.  The initial Aggregate Commitment is $1,000,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment
 
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure
 
"" means this Three-Year Term Credit Agreement, as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with those used in preparing the financial statements referred to in Section 4.02(h).
Agreement Accounting Principles
 
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) 1.00%; that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Eurodollar Base Rate for any day shall be based on the rate determined on such day at approximately 11 a.m. (London time) by reference to the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in dollars (as set forth by any service selected by the Administrative Agent that has been nominated by the British Bankers' Association as an authorized vendor for the purpose of displaying such rates).  Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurodollar Base Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurodollar Base Rate, as the case may be.
Alternate Base Rate
plus
provided
 
"" means an Advance which bears interest determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
Alternate Base Rate Advance
 
"" means a Loan which bears interest determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
Alternate Base Rate Loan
"" means, (a) with respect to Alternate Base Rate Advances, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to Alternate Base Rate Advances as set forth in the Pricing Schedule and (b) with respect to Eurodollar Advances, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time with respect to Eurodollar Advances as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.
Applicable Margin
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and their respective successors, in their capacity as "Joint Lead Arrangers".
Arrangers
 
"" means an article of this Agreement unless another document is specifically referenced.
Article
 
"" means any of the president, chief financial officer, treasurer or vice-president and controller of the Borrower, acting singly.
Authorized Officer
 
"" means Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
Borrower
 
"" means the senior unsecured long-term debt (without third party credit enhancement) rating of the Borrower as determined by a rating agency identified on the Pricing Schedule.
Borrower Debt Rating
 
"" means a date on which an Advance is made hereunder.
Borrowing Date
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(n).
Borrower Material Adverse Change
 
"" means any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that is or would reasonably be expected to be materially adverse to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, but shall not be deemed to include any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence: (i) in or affecting economic conditions (including changes in interest rates) or the financial or securities markets in the United States or elsewhere in the world, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (ii) in or affecting the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate generally (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including the industries in which the Borrower's or any of its Subsidiaries' clients or customers operate), to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate or (iii) resulting from or arising out of (A) the announcement or the existence of, or compliance with, or taking any action required by the
Borrower Material Adverse Effect
Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (B) any taking of any action at the written request of the Company (and, with respect to any material action, with the prior written consent of the Arrangers, not to be unreasonably withheld), (C) any litigation arising from allegations of a breach of fiduciary duty or other violation of applicable Law relating to the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (D) any adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification, reinterpretation or proposal, in each case after the date of the Merger Agreement, of any rule, regulation, ordinance, order, protocol or any other Law of or by any national, regional, state or local Governmental Entity, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (E) any changes in GAAP or accounting standards or interpretations thereof, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (F) any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or acts of war or terrorism, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate or (G) any change in the share price or trading volume of the Parent Common Stock, in the Borrower's credit rating or in any analyst's recommendations, in each case in and of itself, or the Borrower's failure to meet projections or forecasts (including any analyst's projections), in and of itself (, in each case, that the event, change, effect, development, condition, circumstance or occurrence underlying such change or failure shall not be excluded, and may be taken into account, in determining whether there is or would reasonably be expected to be a Borrower Material Adverse Effect).  The capitalized terms used in this definition and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement as in effect on the date hereof.
provided
 
"" is defined in Section 2.08.
Borrowing Notice
 
"" means the Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof among Aon Corporation, as borrower, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, and the lenders and agents party thereto as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time to the extent permitted hereunder.
Bridge Credit Agreement
 
"" means the "Loan Documents" as defined in the Bridge Credit Agreement.
Bridge Loan Documents
 
"" means the "Loans" as defined in the Bridge Credit Agreement.
Bridge Loans
 
"" means (a) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurodollar Advances, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities, interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system and dealings in United States dollars are carried on in the London interbank market and (b) for all other purposes, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York for the conduct of
Business Day
substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
 
"" means each of (i) the Second Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2001, by and among Cananwill Premium Credit Trust, Cananwill Corporation, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as Administrative Agent, (ii) the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2002, by and among Cananwill Canada Limited, the Borrower and CIBC Mellon Trust Company, in its capacity as Trustee of Plaza Trust, (iii) the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Cananwill Receivables Purchase Facility, L.L.C., Cananwill Europe Limited, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as administrative agent and (iv) the Receivables Facilities Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2001, by and among Abel Tasman Holdings Pty Limited, Cananwill Australia Pty Limited, Cananwill, Inc. and ABN AMRO Asset Management (Australia) Limited, in each case as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented from time to time, provided that such modification, amendment or supplement does not change the fundamental nature thereof.
Cananwill Securitization
 
"" of a Person means any lease of Property by such Person as lessee which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capitalized Lease
 
"" of a Person means the amount of the obligations of such Person under Capitalized Leases which would be shown as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capitalized Lease Obligations
 
"" is defined in Section 3.02.
Change
 
"" means (a) the acquisition by any Person, or two or more Persons acting in concert, including without limitation any acquisition effected by means of any transaction contemplated by Section 6.11, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 30% or more of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Borrower, or (b) during any period of 25 consecutive calendar months, commencing on the date of this Agreement, the ceasing of those individuals (the "") who (i) were directors of the Borrower on the first day of each such period or (ii) subsequently became directors of the Borrower and whose initial election or initial nomination for election subsequent to that date was approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the board of directors of the Borrower, to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower.
Change in Control
Continuing Directors
 
"" shall mean the date on which the Merger is consummated and the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02 have been satisfied or waived.
Closing Date
"" means the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 5.01(a), 5.02, 5.03 (other than the first sentence thereof), 5.05, 5.11, 5.12, 5.18(a), 5.19 and 5.20.
Closing Date Specified Representations
"" means that Co-Arranger Commitment Letter dated as of July 21, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc to the Borrower.
Co-Arranger Commitment Letter
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or, in each case, their respective successors), in their collective capacity as "Co-Arrangers".
Co-Arrangers
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or, in each case, their respective Affiliates and successors), in their collective capacity as "Co-Documentation Agents".
Co-Documentation Agents
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, reformed or otherwise modified from time to time.
Code
 
"" means, for each Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Loans to the Borrower in an aggregate outstanding amount not exceeding the amount set forth opposite its name on Schedule 1.01 hereto,  as it may be modified as a result of any assignment that has become effective pursuant to Section 12.03(b) or as otherwise modified from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
Commitment
 
"" is defined in Section 2.05(a).
Commitment Fee
 
"" means that Commitment Letter dated as of July 11, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. to the Borrower.
Commitment Letter
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Communications
 
"" means Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(o).
Company Material Adverse Change
 
"" means any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that is or would be reasonably expected to be materially adverse to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, but shall not be deemed to include any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence: (i) in or affecting economic conditions (including changes in interest rates) or the
Company Material Adverse Effect
financial or securities markets in the United States or elsewhere in the world, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, (ii) in or affecting the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate generally (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including the industries in which the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' clients or customers operate), to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate or (iii) resulting from or arising out of (A) the announcement or the existence of, or compliance with, or taking any action required by the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (B) any taking of any action at the written request of the Borrower, Merger Sub or Merger LLC (and, with respect to any material action, with the prior written consent of the Arrangers, not to be unreasonably withheld), (C) any litigation arising from allegations of a breach of fiduciary duty or other violation of applicable law relating to the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (D) any adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification, reinterpretation or proposal, in each case after the date of the Merger Agreement, of any rule, regulation, ordinance, order, protocol or any other Law of or by any national, regional, state or local Governmental Entity, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, (E) any changes in GAAP or accounting standards or interpretations thereof, to the extent the Company or its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate, (F) any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or acts of war or terrorism, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, or (G) any change in the share price or trading volume of the shares of Company Common Stock, in the Company's credit rating or in any analyst's recommendations, in each case in and of itself, or the failure of the Company to meet projections or forecasts (including any analyst's projections), in and of itself (, in each case, that the event, change, effect, development, condition, circumstance or occurrence underlying such change or failure shall not be excluded, and may be taken into account, in determining whether there is or would reasonably be expected to be a Company Material Adverse Effect).  The capitalized terms used in this definition and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement as in effect on the date hereof.
provided
 
"" is defined in Section 7.01(h).
Condemnation
 
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum of the Borrower dated June 2010.
Confidential Information Memorandum
 
"" or "", when used in connection with any calculation, means a calculation to be determined on a consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (or, when used with respect to any other Person, such Person and its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated
consolidated
"" means, for any Measurement Period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, (a) to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, (ii) expense for taxes paid or accrued, (iii) depreciation, (iv) amortization, (v) extraordinary losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business, (vi) the Transaction Costs and (vii) non recurring cash charges incurred for such period in connection with the Merger in an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate during the term of this Agreement (b) to the extent included in Consolidated Net Income, extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, no amounts shall be added pursuant to clauses (i) through (v) for any losses, costs, expenses or other charges resulting from the settlement of any Disclosed Claims or any payments in respect of any judgments or other orders thereon or any restructuring or other charges in connection therewith or relating thereto.
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
minus
provided
 
"" means, without duplication, (i) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of the types described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the definition of Indebtedness (excluding, for purposes of clauses (b) and (c), any leases that constitute operating leases in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles), and (ii) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of the type described in clause (j) of the definition of Indebtedness with respect to Indebtedness of the types described in clause (i) above, calculated on a Consolidated basis.
Consolidated Funded Debt
 
"" means, for any Measurement Period, the interest expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
"" means, as of the last day of any Measurement Period, the ratio of Consolidated Funded Debt at such date to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for such Measurement Period; that in the event that the Senior Notes are issued prior to the Closing Date and the proceeds thereof are held in escrow pursuant to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes for the purpose of determining the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time prior to the Closing Date shall be deemed to be the excess (if any) of the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes over the escrowed proceeds thereof.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
provided
 
"" means, with reference to any period, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the consolidated common stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
"" of a Person means any agreement, undertaking or arrangement by which such Person assumes, guarantees, endorses, contingently agrees to purchase or provide funds for the payment of, or otherwise becomes or is contingently liable upon, the obligation or liability of any other Person, or agrees to maintain the net worth or working capital or other
Contingent Obligation
financial condition of any other Person, or otherwise assures any creditor of such other Person against loss, including, without limitation, any comfort letter, operating agreement or take or pay contract or application for a Letter of Credit.
 
"" means the agreements and instruments set forth on Schedule 4.02(g) as the same may be supplemented, modified, amended, refinanced or replaced from time to time; that in each case the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof (or credit committed thereunder) is not increased without the consent of the Required Lenders except as contemplated by Section 6.19(b).
Continuing Debt Instruments
provided
 
"" means all members of a controlled group of corporations or other business entities and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
 
"" is defined in Section 2.09.
Conversion/Continuation Notice
 
"" means the making of an Advance hereunder.
Credit Extension
 
"" means the Borrowing Date for an Advance.
Credit Extension Date
 
"" means an event described in Article 7.
Default
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.19.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" means any litigation, proceeding or investigation disclosed in (a) the Borrower's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (b) the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Disclosed Claims
 
"" or "" means the sale, transfer or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction), in each case for consideration in any single transaction or series of related transactions in excess of $25,000,000 (as determined reasonably in good faith by the Borrower), by any Person of any Property (including any equity interests owned by such Person, or any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith) of such Person (or the granting of any option or other right to do any of the foregoing).
Disposition
Dispose
 
"" means the date this Agreement becomes effective in accordance with Section 4.01.
Effective Date
 
"" means the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 5.01(a), 5.02, 5.03 (other than the first sentence thereof and clause (i)(B) of the second sentence thereof), 5.12 and 5.18.
Effective Date Specified Representations
 
"" is defined in Section 5.15.
Environmental Laws
"" has the meaning specified in Section 9.06(b).
Environmental Liability
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any rule or regulation issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" means the 650,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of February 7, 2005 by and among the Borrower, the Subsidiaries of the Borrower party thereto, Citibank International plc, as agent, and the financial institutions parties thereto as lenders, as the same may be supplemented, modified and amended from time to time, that, in each case, the principal amount of the credit committed thereunder is not increased without the consent of the Required Lenders except as contemplated by Section 6.19(b).  References to any specific section of the Euro Facility shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding provision in the Euro Facility as modified, amended, renewed or refinanced from time to time.
Euro Facility
provided
 
"" means an Advance which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.11, bears interest at the applicable Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Advance
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Advance, the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, provided that, (i) if Reuters LIBOR01 Page is not available to the Administrative Agent for any reason, the applicable Eurodollar Base Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars as reported by any other generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, and (ii) if no such British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate is available to the Administrative Agent, the applicable Eurodollar Base Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which the Administrative Agent offers to place deposits in U.S. dollars with first class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, in the approximate amount of the Administrative Agent's relevant Eurodollar Loan and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
 
"" means a Loan which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.11, bears interest at the applicable Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Loan
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the quotient of (i) the Eurodollar Base Rate applicable to such Interest Period, divided by (ii) one the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, plus (b) the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Advances.
Eurodollar Rate
minus
 
"" means Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries having an outstanding principal amount not in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate for all such Indebtedness.
Excluded Indebtedness
 
"" means, in the case of each Lender and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by (i) the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Administrative Agent is incorporated or organized or (ii) the jurisdiction in which the Administrative Agent's or such Lender's principal executive office or such Lender's applicable Lending Installation is located.
Excluded Taxes
 
"" refers to an exhibit to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Exhibit
 
"" means the $400,000,000 Three-Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 4, 2009 among the Borrower, Citibank, N.A., as agent, and the lenders party thereto, as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.  References to any specific section of the Existing Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding provision in the Existing Credit Agreement as modified, amended, renewed or refinanced from time to time.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" means Section 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as in effect on the date hereof, and any applicable Treasury regulations or published administrative guidance promulgated thereunder.
FATCA
 
"" means, for any day, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations at approximately 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"" means the Fee Letter dated as of July 11, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. to the Borrower.
Fee Letter
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(h).
Financial Statements
 
"" means each of the four three-month accounting periods comprising a Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" means the twelve-month accounting period ending December 31 of each year.
Fiscal Year
 
"" is defined in Section 5.21.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 430(d)(2) of the Code or Section 303(d)(2) of ERISA.
Funded Target Attainment Percentage
 
"" means any government (foreign or domestic) or any state or other political subdivision thereof or any governmental body, agency, authority, department or commission (including without limitation any taxing authority or political subdivision) or any instrumentality or officer thereof (including, without limitation, any court or tribunal and any board of insurance, insurance department or insurance commissioner) exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government and any corporation, partnership or other entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by or subject to the control of any of the foregoing.
Governmental Authority
 
"" is defined in Section 5.15.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" means any interest rate protection agreement, foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity price protection agreement or other interest or currency exchange rate or commodity price hedging arrangement and all other similar agreements or arrangements designed to alter the risks of any Person arising from fluctuations in interest rates, currency values or commodity prices.
Hedging Agreement
 
"" means one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower, the Consolidated total assets, Consolidated revenues and Consolidated net operating income of which, in the aggregate, do not exceed three percent (3%) of the Consolidated total assets, Consolidated revenues and Consolidated net operating income, respectively, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in each case determined as of the end, or for, as the case may be, the period of four Fiscal Quarters most recently ended for which financial statements have been or are required to have been delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or Section 6.01(b).
Immaterial Subsidiaries
 
"" of a Person means, without duplication, (a) such Person's obligations for borrowed money, (b) obligations of such Person representing the deferred purchase price of Property or services (other than accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of such Person's business payable on terms customary in the trade), (c) such Person's obligations created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (d) such Person's obligations which are evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures, acceptances, or similar instruments, (e) Capitalized Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) Contingent Obligations of such Person, (g) obligations, contingent or otherwise, for which such Person is obligated pursuant to or in respect of Letters of Credit or bankers' acceptances, (h) such Person's obligations under Hedging Agreements to the extent required to be reflected on a balance sheet of such Person, (i) repurchase obligations or liabilities of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable
Indebtedness
sold by such Person, and (j) all Indebtedness and other obligations referred to in clauses (a) through (i) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligations has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person or payable out of the proceeds or production from property of such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness or other obligations.
 
"" is defined in Section 9.11.
Information
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance, a period of one, two, three or six months commencing on a Business Day selected by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.  An Interest Period of one, two, three or six months shall end on (but exclude) the day which corresponds numerically to such date one, two, three or six months thereafter; , , that if there is no such numerically corresponding day in such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month.  If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day; , , that if said next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day.
Interest Period
provided
however
provided
however
 
"" means the actual knowledge of any fact, circumstance or condition of those officers of the Borrower, Merger Sub and Merger LLC set forth in Section 9.03 of the Parent Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
Knowledge
 
""
Law
means
any Federal, state, local, foreign, international or multinational treaty, constitution, statute or other law, ordinance, rule or regulation.
 
"" is defined in Section 10.06.
Lender Appointment Period
 
"" means the lending institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Lenders
 
"" means, with respect to a Lender or the Administrative Agent, the office or branch of such Lender or the Administrative Agent listed on the signature pages hereof, on a Schedule or otherwise selected by such Lender or the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.17.
Lending Installation
 
"" of a Person means a letter of credit or similar instrument which is issued upon the application of such Person or upon which such Person is an account party or for which such Person is in any way liable.
Letter of Credit
 
"" means any security interest, lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including,
Lien
without limitation, the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, Capitalized Lease or other title retention agreement).
 
"" means, with respect to a Lender, such Lender's loan made pursuant to Article 2 (or any conversion or continuation thereof).
Loan
 
"" means this Agreement and any Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.13 and the other documents and agreements contemplated hereby and executed by the Borrower in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Loan Documents
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term under Regulation U.
Margin Stock
 
"" means a Borrower Material Adverse Change or a Company Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise), performance, results of operations, or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents, or (c) the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means the date that is three years from the Closing Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Maturity Date
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the most recently completed four consecutive Fiscal Quarters of the Borrower ending on or prior to such date.
Measurement Period
 
"" means the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger
 
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 11, 2010 among the Borrower, Merger LLC, Merger Sub and the Company.
Merger Agreement
 
"" means an aggregate amount of approximately $2,450,000,000 in cash to be paid to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Cash Consideration
 
"" means the Merger Cash Consideration and the Merger Equity Consideration.
Merger Consideration
 
"" means the shares of common stock of the Borrower to be delivered to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Equity Consideration
 
"" means Alps Merger LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger LLC
"" means Alps Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger Sub
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor thereto.
Moody's
 
"" means a Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" is defined in Section 3.05(d).
Non-U.S. Lender
 
"" is defined in Section 2.13.
Note
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Notice
 
"" means all unpaid principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, all accrued and unpaid fees and all expenses, reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations of the Borrower to the Lenders or to any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any indemnified party arising under the Loan Documents.
Obligations
 
"" is defined in Section 3.05(b).
Other Taxes
 
"" means, as to any Lender at any time, the aggregate principal amount of its Loans outstanding at such time.
Outstanding Credit Exposure
 
"" is defined in Section 12.02.
Participants
 
"" means the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December.
Payment Date
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
"" means each Person identified in writing by the Borrower to the Arrangers on the date of execution of the Commitment Letter.
Permitted Assignee
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, firm, joint venture, partnership, association, enterprise, limited liability company, trust or other entity or organization, or any government or political subdivision or any agency, department or instrumentality thereof.
Person
 
"" means an "employee pension benefit plan," as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code, as to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group may have any liability.
Plan
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Platform
 
"" means the Schedule attached hereto identified as such.
Pricing Schedule
"" means mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by Credit Suisse AG (or any successor to Credit Suisse AG in its capacity as Administrative Agent) as its prime commercial lending rate in effect at its principal office in New York City.  The Prime Rate is a reference rate and does not necessarily represent the lowest or best rate actually charged to any customer.
Prime Rate
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(i).
Pro Forma Financials
 
"" of a Person means any and all property, whether real, personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned, leased or operated by such Person.
Property
 
"" means, when used with respect to a Lender, and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to such Lender's pro rata share or portion based on its percentage of the Aggregate Commitment or if the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, its percentage of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.
pro rata
 
"" is defined in Section 12.03.
Purchasers
 
"" means Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor thereto or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to reserve requirements applicable to depositary institutions.
Regulation D
 
"" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to the extension of credit by banks and certain other Persons for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System and certain other Persons.
Regulation U
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective partners, directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" is defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 39601 et seq.  "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Release
Released
 
"" is defined in Section 2.02.
Repayment Date
 
"" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued under such section, with respect to a Plan, excluding, however, such events as to which the PBGC has by regulation waived the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that it be notified within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such event; , that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 or 430 of the Code or Section 302 of
Reportable Event
provided
ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waiver of the notice requirement in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(c) of the Code.
 
"" means Lenders in the aggregate having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment or, if the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, Lenders in the aggregate holding more than 50% of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time (a) the unused Commitment of such Defaulting Lender at such time and (b) Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
 
"" means, with respect to an Interest Period, the maximum aggregate reserve requirement (including all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves) which is imposed under Regulation D on Eurocurrency liabilities.
Reserve Requirement
 
"" is defined in Section 3.02.
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
 
"" means Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto.
S&P
 
"" refers to a specific schedule to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Schedule
 
"" means the up to $1,500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes of the Borrower issued in a public offering or in a Rule 144A or other private placement.
Senior Notes
 
"" means a numbered section of this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Section
 
"" means a Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
 
"" and "" mean, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, on any date of determination, that on such date (a) the Fair Value (as defined below) of the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, (b) the Present Fair Salable Value (as defined below) of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on their debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries do not intend to, and do not believe that they will, incur debts or liabilities beyond their ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature, (d) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not engaged in business or a transaction, and are not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' property, on a consolidated basis, would constitute unreasonably small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the industry in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the Company and its Subsidiaries are
Solvent
Solvency
engaged in on the date hereof, and (e) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, are able to pay their debts and liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the ordinary course of business.  The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.  For the purpose hereof, "" means  the amount at which the aggregate assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller within a commercially reasonable period of time, each having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts, neither being under any compulsion to act, with equity to both.  "" means the amount that may be realized if the aggregate assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are sold with reasonable promptness in an arm's length transaction under present conditions for the sale of assets of comparable business enterprises.
Fair Value
Present Fair Salable Value
 
"" the merger of the surviving corporation in the Merger with and into Merger LLC, with Merger LLC surviving as a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Borrower.
Subsequent Merger
 
"" of a Person means (a) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, limited liability company or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.  Unless otherwise expressly provided, all references herein to a "" shall mean a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
 
"" means, with respect to the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Property which (a) represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the quarter next preceding the date on which such determination is made, or (b) is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the consolidated net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the 12-month period ending as of the end of the quarter next preceding the date of determination.
Substantial Portion
 
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and its successors, in its capacity as "Syndication Agent".
Syndication Agent
 
"" means any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities with respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes.
Taxes
 
"" means, with respect to any Plan which is subject to Title IV of ERISA, (a) a Reportable Event, (b) the withdrawal of the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group from such Plan during a plan year in which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or was deemed such under Section 4068(f) of ERISA, the conditions for imposition of a lien
Termination Event
under Section 303(d) of ERISA shall have been met, (d) a determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA), (e) the termination of such Plan, the filing of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan or the treatment of an amendment of such Plan as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, (f) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate such Plan or (g) any event or condition which might constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or appointment of a trustee to administer, such Plan.
 
"" means (i) the Merger and the Subsequent Merger, including the payment of the Merger Consideration, (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, including the funding of the Loans hereunder and the application of the proceeds thereof, (iii) the execution, delivery and performance of the Bridge Credit Agreement, (iv) the issuance of the Senior Notes, and, to the extent the Borrower is unable to issue the Senior Notes on or prior to the date the Merger is consummated, the funding of the Bridge Loans and the application of the proceeds thereof and (v) payment of the Transaction Costs.
Transactions
 
"" means fees and expenses in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in connection with the Transactions.
Transactions Costs
 
"" is defined in Section 12.04.
Transferee
 
"" means, with respect to any Advance, its nature as an Alternate Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Advance.
Type
 
"" means an event which but for the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a Default.
Unmatured Default
 
"" shall mean The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Title III of Pub.  L.  No.  107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)).
USA PATRIOT Act
 
"" of a Person means (a) any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, limited liability company or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.  Unless otherwise provided, all references herein to a "" shall mean a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.  In computations of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means "" and the words "" and "" each mean "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
Section 2.01Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make Loans to the Borrower on the Closing Date in a principal amount not to exceed the amount of its Commitment.  Amounts borrowed under this Section 2.01 and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed.
.  Commitment. 
 
Section 2.02.  .
Required Payments
 
(a)        The Borrower shall pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Lenders, on the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December occurring after the Closing Date and prior to the Maturity Date (each such date being called a ""), a principal amount of the Loans (as adjusted from time to time pursuant to Section 2.07) equal to 2.50% of the original principal amount of the Loans, together in each case with accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount to be paid to but excluding the date of such payment.
Repayment Date
 
(b)        All unpaid Obligations shall be paid in full by the Borrower on the Maturity Date.
 
Section 2.03.  .  Each Advance hereunder shall consist of Loans made from the several Lenders ratably in proportion to the ratio that their respective Commitments bear to the Aggregate Commitment.
Ratable Loans
 
Section 2.04.  The Advances may be Alternate Base Rate Advances or Eurodollar Advances, or a combination thereof, selected by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.08 and Section 2.09.
Types of Advances. 
 
Section 2.05.    (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee (the ""), which shall accrue at 0.375% per annum on the daily amount of the unused Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including August 25, 2010 to but excluding the earlier to occur of (i) the termination of the Commitments hereunder and (ii) the Closing Date and shall be payable on such earlier date.
Undrawn Commitment Fee / Termination or Reductions of Commitments.
Commitment Fee
 
(b)        All unused Commitments after giving effect to the Advances on the Closing Date shall automatically terminate.  In addition, the Commitments shall automatically terminate in the event that the Closing Date does not occur on or before the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 31, 2011 or (ii) the date on which the Merger Agreement terminates or either party thereto publicly announces its intention not to proceed with the Acquisition.
 
(c)        At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitment in whole, or in part ratably among the Lenders in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, upon at least three (3) Business Days' written notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such reduction.
(d)        The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the other parties thereto the fees payable in the amounts and at the times set forth in the Fee Letter, the Commitment Letter and the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter, except that any "ticking fee" payable pursuant to the Fee Letter or the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter with respect to the Commitments shall, from the Effective Date, be replaced with the Commitment Fee.
 
Section 2.06.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall be in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 (and in multiples of $1,000,000 if in excess thereof), that in no event shall more than six (6) Eurodollar Advances be permitted to be outstanding at any time.
Minimum Amount of Each Advance. 
provided, however,
 
Section 2.07.  The Borrower may from time to time pay, without penalty or premium, all outstanding Alternate Base Rate Advances, or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, any portion of the outstanding Alternate Base Rate Advances upon notice to the Administrative Agent by 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Business Day of the proposed prepayment.  The Borrower may from time to time pay, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04 but without penalty or premium, all outstanding Eurodollar Advances, or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, any portion of an outstanding Eurodollar Advance, upon three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent.  Prepayments shall be applied to scheduled amortization of the Loans as directed by the Borrower.
Optional Principal Payments. 
 
Section 2.08The Borrower shall select the Type of Advance and, in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto from time to time.  The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (a "") not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Business Day prior to the Closing Date of each Alternate Base Rate Advance and at least three (3) Business Days before the Closing Date for each Eurodollar Advance, specifying:
.  Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for New Advances. 
Borrowing Notice
 
(a)
                   
the Borrowing Date of such Advance, which shall be the Closing Date and a Business Day;
 
(b)
                  
the aggregate amount of such Advance;
 
(c)
                   
the Type of Advance selected; and
 
(d)
                  
in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto.
 
Not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Closing Date, each Lender shall make available its Loan or Loans, in funds immediately available in New York, to the Administrative Agent at its address specified pursuant to Article 13.  The Administrative Agent will make the funds so received from the Lenders available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address.
Section 2.09Each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall continue as an Alternate Base Rate Advance unless and until such Alternate Base Rate Advance is converted into a Eurodollar Advance pursuant to this Section 2.09 or is repaid in accordance with Section 2.07.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall continue as a Eurodollar Advance until the end of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, at which time such Eurodollar Advance shall be automatically converted into an Alternate Base Rate Advance unless (a) such Eurodollar Advance is or was repaid in accordance with Section 2.07 or (b) the Borrower shall have given the Administrative Agent a Conversion/Continuation Notice (as defined below) requesting that, at the end of such Interest Period, such Eurodollar Advance continue as a Eurodollar Advance for the same or another Interest Period (or, if no Interest Period is specified in such Conversion/Continuation Notice, continuation shall be for a one (1) month Interest Period).  Subject to the terms of Section 2.06, the Borrower may elect from time to time to convert all or any part of an Alternate Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance.  Subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04, the Borrower may elect from time to time to convert all or any part of a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance.  The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (a "") of each (x) conversion of an Alternate Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance or the continuation of a Eurodollar Advance as a new Eurodollar Advance not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of the requested conversion or continuation and (y) conversion of a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance, not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the date of the requested conversion, in each case specifying:
.   Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Advances. 
Conversion/Continuation Notice
 
(a)       the requested date of such conversion or continuation, which shall be a Business Day;
 
(b)      the aggregate amount and Type of the Advance which is to be converted or continued; and
 
(c)       the amount and Type(s) of Advance(s) into which such Advance is to be converted or continued and, in the case of a conversion into or continuation of a Eurodollar Advance, the duration of the Interest Period applicable thereto, which shall end on or prior to the Maturity Date.
 
Section 2.10Each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from and including the date such Advance is made or is converted from a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance pursuant to Section 2.09, to but excluding the date it is paid or is converted into a Eurodollar Advance pursuant to Section 2.09 hereof, at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate the Applicable Margin with respect to Alternate Base Rate Advances, in each case for such day.  Changes in the rate of interest on that portion of any Advance maintained as an Alternate Base Rate Advance will take effect simultaneously with each change in the Alternate Base Rate.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but
.  Interest Rate, Etc. 
plus
not including) the last day of such Interest Period at the Eurodollar Rate determined by the Administrative Agent as applicable to such Eurodollar Advance based upon the Borrower's selections under Section 2.08 and Section 2.09 and otherwise in accordance with the terms hereof.  No Interest Period may end after the Maturity Date.
 
Section 2.11Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 2.08 or Section 2.09, no Advance may be made as, converted into or continued as a Eurodollar Advance (except with the consent of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders) when any Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.  During the continuance of a Default the Required Lenders may, at their option, by notice to the Borrower (which notice may be revoked at the option of the Required Lenders notwithstanding any provision of Section 8.02 requiring unanimous consent of the Lenders to changes in interest rates), declare that (a) each Eurodollar Advance shall bear interest for the remainder of the applicable Interest Period at the Eurodollar Rate otherwise applicable to such Interest Period plus 2% per annum and (b) each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin for Alternate Base Rate Advances 2% per annum that, during the continuance of a Default under Section 7.01(f) or Section 7.01(g), the interest rates set forth in clauses (a) and (b) above shall be applicable to all Advances without any election or action on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
.  Rates Applicable After Default. 
plus
provided
 
Section 2.12All payments of the Obligations hereunder shall be made, without setoff, deduction or counterclaim, in immediately available funds to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's address specified pursuant to Article 13, or at any other Lending Installation of the Administrative Agent specified in writing by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, by noon (New York time) on the date when due and shall be applied ratably by the Administrative Agent among the Lenders entitled to such payments.  Each payment delivered to the Administrative Agent for the account of any Lender shall be delivered promptly by the Administrative Agent to such Lender in the same type of funds that the Administrative Agent received at its address specified pursuant to Article 13 or at any Lending Installation specified in a notice received by the Administrative Agent from such Lender.
.  Method of Payment. 
 
Section 2.13Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
.  Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness. 
 
(a)        The Administrative Agent shall also maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period with respect thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.
(b)        The entries maintained in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the Obligations therein recorded; , , that the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Obligations in accordance with their terms.
provided
however
 
(c)        Any Lender may request that its Loans be evidenced by a promissory note in substantially the form of Exhibit A (including any amendment, modification, renewal or replacement thereof, a "").  In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender such Note payable to the order of such Lender.  Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after any assignment pursuant to Section 12.03) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein or any assignee pursuant to Section 12.03, except to the extent that any such Lender or assignee subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation and requests that such Loans once again be evidenced as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Upon receipt of an affidavit of an officer of any Lender as to the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such Lender's Note, and, in the case of any such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation, upon cancellation of such Note, the Borrower will issue, in lieu thereof, a replacement Note in the same principal amount thereof and otherwise of like tenor.
Note
 
Section 2.14The Borrower hereby authorizes the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to extend, convert or continue Advances, effect selections of Types of Advances and to transfer funds based on telephonic notices made by any person or persons the Administrative Agent or any Lender in good faith believes to be acting on behalf of the Borrower, it being understood that the foregoing authorization is specifically intended to allow Borrowing Notices and Conversion/Continuation Notices to be given telephonically; that the Borrower delivers promptly to the Administrative Agent a written confirmation of each telephonic notice signed by an Authorized Officer.  If the written confirmation differs in any material respect from the action taken by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, the records of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall govern absent manifest error.
.  Telephonic Notices. 
provided
 
Section 2.15Interest accrued on each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall be payable on each Payment Date, commencing with the first such date to occur after the date hereof, on any date on which an Alternate Base Rate Advance is prepaid (with respect to the principal so prepaid), whether due to acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity.  Interest accrued on that portion of the outstanding principal amount of any Alternate Base Rate Advance converted into a Eurodollar Advance on a day other than a Payment Date shall be payable on the date of conversion.  Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance shall be payable on the last day of its applicable Interest Period, on any date on which the Eurodollar Advance is prepaid (with respect to the principal so prepaid), whether by acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity.  Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance having an Interest Period longer than three (3) months shall also be payable on the last day of each three-month interval during such Interest Period.  Interest with respect to Eurodollar Loans, Commitment Fees and Alternate Base Rate Loans for which interest is not determined by reference to the
.  Interest Payment Dates; Interest and Fee Basis. 
Prime Rate shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360 day year.  Interest with respect to Alternate Base Rate Loans for which interest is determined by reference to the Prime Rate shall be calculated for the actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365 or 366 day year, as applicable.  Interest shall be payable for the day an Advance is made but not for the day of any payment.  If any payment of principal of or interest on an Advance shall become due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a principal payment, such extension of time shall be included in computing interest in connection with such payment.
 
Section 2.16Promptly after receipt thereof, the Administrative Agent will notify each Lender of the contents of each Aggregate Commitment reduction notice, Borrowing Notice, Conversion/Continuation Notice, and repayment notice received by it hereunder.  The Administrative Agent will notify each Lender of the Eurodollar Rate applicable to each Eurodollar Advance promptly upon determination of such interest rate and will give each Lender prompt notice of each change in the Alternate Base Rate.
.  Notification of Advances, Interest Rates, Prepayments and Commitment Reductions. 
 
Section 2.17.  .  Each Lender may book its Loans at any Lending Installation selected by such Lender and may change its Lending Installation from time to time.  All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Lending Installation and the Loans and any Notes issued hereunder shall be deemed held by each Lender for the benefit of any such Lending Installation.  Each Lender may, by written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in accordance with Article 13, designate replacement or additional Lending Installations through which Loans will be made by it will be issued by it and for whose account Loan payments are to be made.
Lending Installations
 
Section 2.18Unless the Borrower or a Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Administrative Agent prior to the time at which it is scheduled to make payment to the Administrative Agent of (a) in the case of a Lender, the proceeds of a Loan, or (b) in the case of the Borrower, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, that it does not intend to make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such payment has been made.  The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment available to the intended recipient in reliance upon such assumption.  If such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, has not in fact made such payment to the Administrative Agent, the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Administrative Agent, repay to the Administrative Agent the amount so made available together with interest thereon in respect of each day during the period commencing on the date such amount was so made available by the Administrative Agent until the date the Administrative Agent recovers such amount at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of payment by a Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day for the first three (3) days and, thereafter, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan or (ii) in the case of payment by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan.
.  Non-Receipt of Funds by the Administrative Agent. 
Section 2.19If (a) the Borrower is required pursuant to Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.05 to make any additional payment to any Lender, (b) any Lender's obligation to make or continue, or to convert Alternate Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended pursuant to Section 3.03, or (c) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender (any Lender so affected an ""), the Borrower may elect, if such amounts continue to be charged or such suspension is still effective or such Lender continues to be a Defaulting Lender, to replace such Affected Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, provided that no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such replacement, and that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Advances at par and other Obligations due to the Affected Lender pursuant to an assignment substantially in the form of Exhibit C and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Affected Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of Section 12.03 applicable to assignments, and (ii) the Borrower and/or the assignee shall pay to such Affected Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (A) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Affected Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Affected Lender under Section 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05, and (B) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 3.04 had the Loans of such Affected Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.  For purposes hereof, "" means a Lender that has (i) defaulted in its obligation to fund any Loan within one Business Day after the date required to be funded by it or (ii) has (or whose parent company has) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or has had a receiver or conservator appointed with respect to such Lender (or such Lender's parent company) at the direction or request of any regulatory agency or authority (or similar regulatory action has been taken with respect to such Lender or parent company of such Lender, provided that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as a result of either (1) the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or a Person controlling such Lender by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof or (2) the exercise of control over such Lender or Person controlling such Lender by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof incident to such ownership interest.
.  Replacement of Lender. 
Affected Lender
provided
further
Defaulting Lender
 
Section 3.01If, on or after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any law or any governmental or quasi governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental or quasi-governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender or applicable Lending Installation with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency
.  Yield Protection. 
 
(a)        subjects any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to any Taxes or Other Taxes, or changes the basis of taxation of payments (other than with respect to Excluded Taxes) to any Lender in respect of its Eurodollar Loans, or
 
(b)        imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation (other than reserves and assessments taken into account in determining the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Advances), or
 
(c)        imposes any other condition the result of which is to increase the cost to any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation of making, funding or maintaining its Eurodollar Loans, or reduces any amount receivable by any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with its Eurodollar Loans, or requires any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to the amount of Eurodollar Loans, held or interest received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Lender, and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender or applicable Lending Installation of making or maintaining its Eurodollar Loans or Commitment or to reduce the return received by such Lender or applicable Lending Installation in connection with such Eurodollar Loans or Commitment, then, within fifteen (15) days of demand by such Lender as provided in Section 3.06, the Borrower shall pay such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in amount received.
 
Section 3.02If a Lender determines the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, any Lending Installation of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a Change, then, within fifteen (15) days of demand by such Lender as provided in Section 3.06, the Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in the rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Agreement, its Outstanding Credit Exposure or its Commitment to make Loans hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy).  "" means (a) any change after the date of this Agreement in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or (b) any adoption of or change in any other law, governmental or quasi governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the date of this Agreement which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any Lending Installation or any Person controlling any Lender.  "" means (a) the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the date of this Agreement, including transition rules, and (b) the corresponding capital regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities outside the United States implementing the July 1988 report of the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurements and Capital Standards," including transition rules, and any amendments to such regulations adopted prior to the date of this Agreement.
.  Changes in Capital Adequacy Regulations. 
Change
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
Section 3.03If any Lender determines that maintenance of its Eurodollar Loans at a suitable Lending Installation would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, interpretation or directive, whether or not having the force of law, or if the Required Lenders determine that (a) deposits of a type and maturity appropriate to match fund Eurodollar Advances are not available or (b) the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Advances does not accurately or fairly reflect the cost of making or maintaining Eurodollar Advances, then the Administrative Agent shall suspend the availability of Eurodollar Advances and require any affected Eurodollar Advances to be repaid or converted to Alternate Base Rate Advances, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04.
.  Availability of Types of Advances. 
 
Section 3.04If any payment of a Eurodollar Advance occurs on a date prior to the last day of the applicable Interest Period, whether because of acceleration, prepayment or otherwise, or a Eurodollar Advance is not made on the date specified by the Borrower for any reason other than default by the Lenders, the Borrower will indemnify each Lender for any loss or cost incurred by it resulting therefrom, including, without limitation, any loss or cost in liquidating or employing deposits acquired to fund or maintain such Eurodollar Advance.
.  Funding Indemnification. 
 
Section 3.05(a)  Subject to applicable law, all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all Taxes.  Subject to subsection (c) below and Section 3.06, if the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 3.05) such Lender or the Administrative Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent the original copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof, or other evidence reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, within thirty (30) days after such payment is made.
.  Taxes. 
 
(b)        In addition, the Borrower hereby agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or under any Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note ("").
Other Taxes
 
(c)        The Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on amounts payable under this Section 3.05) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto.  Payments due under this indemnification shall be made within
thirty (30) days of the date the Administrative Agent or such Lender makes demand therefor pursuant to Section 3.06.
 
(d)        Each Lender that is not incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (each a "") agrees that it will, not more than ten (10) Business Days after the date of this Agreement (or, in the case of a Lender who becomes a party hereto after the date of this Agreement, the date it becomes a party hereto), deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or W-8IMY (and any required attachments), certifying in either case that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes.  Each Non-U.S. Lender further undertakes, to the extent lawful at such time, to deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (i) renewals or additional copies of such form (or any successor form) on or before the date that such form expires or becomes obsolete, and (ii) after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent forms so delivered by it, such additional forms or amendments thereto as may be required by applicable law or otherwise reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent.  In addition, each Non-US Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower any documents as shall be prescribed by applicable law or otherwise reasonably requested to demonstrate that payments to such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are exempt from any United States federal withholding tax imposed pursuant to FATCA.  All forms or amendments described in the preceding sentence shall certify that such Lender is entitled to receive payments of interest under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless an event (including without limitation any change in treaty, law or regulation) has occurred after the date it became a Lender hereunder and prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form or amendment with respect to it and such Lender advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that it is not capable of receiving payments of interest without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax.  For purposes of this Section 3.05(d), each change of a Lender's Lending Installation in accordance with Section 2.17 shall be treated as though such Lending Installation became a party hereto on the date of such change of Lending Installation.
Non-U.S. Lender
 
(e)        For any period during which a Non-U.S. Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with an appropriate form or other document pursuant to clause (d) above (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form or other document originally was required to be provided), such Non-U.S. Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under this Section 3.05 with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States; that, should a Non-U.S. Lender which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form or other document required under clause (d), above, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Non-U.S. Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Non-U.S. Lender to recover such Taxes.
provided
(f)         Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement or any Note pursuant to the law of any relevant jurisdiction or any treaty shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
 
(g)        Each Lender that is not a Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
 
(h)        If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or any other Governmental Authority of the United States or any other country or any political subdivision thereof asserts a claim that the Administrative Agent did not properly withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Lender (because the appropriate form was not delivered or properly completed, because such Lender failed to notify the Administrative Agent of a change in circumstances which rendered its exemption from withholding ineffective, or for any other reason not caused by or constituting gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent), such Lender shall indemnify the Administrative Agent fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by the Administrative Agent as tax, withholding therefor, or otherwise, including penalties and interest, and including taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable to the Administrative Agent under this subsection, together with all reasonable costs and expenses related thereto (including reasonable attorneys' fees and reasonable time charges of attorneys for the Administrative Agent, which attorneys may be employees of the Administrative Agent).  The obligations of the Lenders under this Section 3.05(h) shall survive the payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
 
Section 3.06To the extent reasonably possible, each Lender shall designate an alternate Lending Installation with respect to its Eurodollar Loans to reduce any liability of the Borrower to such Lender under Sections 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05 or to avoid the unavailability of Eurodollar Advances under Section 3.03, so long as such designation is not, in the judgment of such Lender, disadvantageous to such Lender.  Each Lender shall deliver a written statement of such Lender to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) as to the amount due, if any, under Section 3.01, 3.02, 3.04 or 3.05.  Such written statement shall set forth in reasonable detail the calculations upon which such Lender determined such amount and shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Borrower in the absence of manifest error.  If any Lender fails to deliver such written statement within 180 days after the date on which the Lender becomes aware of the event or occurrence giving rise to such claim, the Borrower shall have no obligation to reimburse, compensate or indemnify such Lender
.  Lender Statements; Survival of Indemnity. 
with respect to any such claim under this Article 3 for any period more than 180 days before the date on which such statement is delivered.  Determination of amounts payable under such Sections in connection with a Eurodollar Loan shall be calculated as though each Lender funded its Eurodollar Loan through the purchase of a deposit of the type and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Loan, whether in fact that is the case or not.  Unless otherwise provided herein, the amount specified in the written statement of any Lender shall be payable on demand after receipt by the Borrower of such written statement.  The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01, 3.02, 3.04 and 3.05 shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
 
Section 4.01This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Borrower has furnished the following to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders and the other conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
.  Effectiveness. 
 
(a)        .  Copies of the certificate of incorporation of the Borrower, together with all amendments thereto, both certified by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of incorporation, together with a good standing certificate issued by the Secretary of State of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and such other jurisdictions as shall be requested by the Administrative Agent.
Charter Documents; Good Standing Certificates
 
(b)        .  Copies, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, of its by-laws and of its Board of Directors' resolutions authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents.
By-Laws and Resolutions
 
(c)        .  An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, which shall identify by name and title and bear the signature of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign the Loan Documents and to make borrowings hereunder, upon which certificate the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the Borrower.
Secretary's Certificate
 
(d)        .  Written opinions of (i) internal counsel to the Borrower and (ii) Sidley Austin LLP, special counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in customary form.
Legal Opinions of Counsel to Borrower
 
(e)        .  Any Notes requested by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.13 not less than two (2) Business Days prior to the Effective Date payable to the order of each such requesting Lender.
Notes
 
(f)         .  Executed originals of this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, which shall be in full force and effect, together with all schedules, exhibits,
Loan Documents
certificates, instruments, opinions, documents and financial statements required to be delivered pursuant hereto and thereto.
 
(g)        .  The Lenders and the Agents shall have received all fees and expenses required to be paid on or prior to the Effective Date (including pursuant to the Commitment Letter, the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter and the Fee Letter) and, with regard to expenses, for which invoices have been presented to the Borrower not less than one Business Day prior to the Effective Date.
Payment of Fees
 
(h)        .  The Lenders shall have received, to the extent requested by the Lenders at least 5 Business Days prior to the Effective Date, all documentation and other information required by regulatory authorities under applicable "" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act; that if any such request was received by the Borrower at least 10 Business Days prior to the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have provided such documents and other information at least 5 Business Days prior to the Effective Date.
USA PATRIOT Act
know your customer
provided
 
Section 4.02The Lenders shall not be required to make any Credit Extension unless the Effective Date shall have occurred and the following additional conditions precedent have been satisfied prior to the termination of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05:
.  Conditions Precedent to the Advances on the Closing Date. 
 
(a)        .  The Lenders and the Agents shall have received all fees and expenses required to be paid on or prior to the Closing Date (including pursuant to the Commitment Letter, the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter) and, with regard to expenses, for which invoices have been presented to the Borrower not less than one Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
Payment of Fees
 
(b)        .  There exists no Default or Unmatured Default and none would result from such Credit Extension other than a Default or Unmatured Default arising as a result of (i) any breach of Section 7.01(a) as a result of representations and warranties (other than the Closing Date Specified Representations) made or deemed made by the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document or (ii) any breach of Section 7.01(e) as a result of representations and warranties made or deemed made by the Borrower under the Bridge Credit Agreement or the Bridge Loan Documents.
Defaults
 
(c)        .  (i) The Closing Date Specified Representations shall be true and correct in all material respects on the Closing Date giving effect to the Transactions; that to the extent any of the Closing Date Specified Representations are qualified by reference to the absence of a "Material Adverse Effect," such representation shall, solely for the purpose of determining satisfaction of this condition precedent, be deemed to be qualified by reference to the absence of a Borrower Material Adverse Effect and the absence of a Company Material Adverse Effect and (ii) such of the representations and warranties made by or on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the Merger Agreement as are material to the interests of the Lenders, but only to the extent that the Borrower has the right to terminate its
Representations and Warranties
provided
obligations under the Merger Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Merger Agreement, shall be true and correct in all material respects.
 
(d)        .  A Borrowing Notice shall have been properly submitted.  Such Borrowing Notice shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that the conditions contained in this Section 4.02 have been satisfied.
Borrowing Notice
 
(e)        .  The Merger and the other Transactions shall be consummated simultaneously (or substantially simultaneously or concurrently) (other than the Subsequent Merger which shall be consummated immediately following the Merger) with the funding of the Loans in accordance with applicable law and on the terms described herein and in the Merger Agreement.  The Merger Agreement shall not have been amended or modified, and no condition shall have been waived or consent granted, in any respect that is materially adverse to the Arrangers, the Lenders or the Borrower without the Arrangers' prior written consent, it being understood and agreed that any change to the transaction structure or the Merger Consideration shall be deemed materially adverse to the Lenders.
Consummation of Merger
 
(f)         .  The Borrower shall have received (or shall substantially simultaneously or concurrently with the funding of the Loans hereunder receive) not less than the sum of (i) $1,500,000,000 from (a) the issuance of the Senior Notes and (b) the borrowings under the Bridge Credit Agreement minus (ii) cash on hand as of the Closing Date.
Senior Notes / Bridge Loans
 
(g)        .  After giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have outstanding no Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) or (d) of the definition thereof, credit facilities or preferred stock other than (i) the Loans and other extensions of credit under this Agreement, (ii) the Senior Notes and/or the loans under the Bridge Credit Agreement, (iii) the Indebtedness incurred or outstanding under the Continuing Debt Instruments in the amounts specified in Schedule 4.02(g), (iv) any Excluded Indebtedness and (v) other Indebtedness as approved in writing by the Required Lenders.
Repayment of Indebtedness
 
(h)        .  The Borrower shall have furnished to the Administrative Agent the unaudited financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the Company and its Subsidiaries for each fiscal quarter ended during the period commencing January 1, 2010 (in the case of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) or October 1, 2009 (in the case of the Company and its Subsidiaries) and ending at least 40 days prior to the Closing Date (or, in the case of any fiscal quarter that is the last quarter of a fiscal year, at least 60 days prior to the Closing Date) (collectively the "").
Financial Statements
Financial Statements
 
(i)         .  The Borrower shall have furnished to the Administrative Agent a pro forma consolidated balance sheet and related pro forma consolidated statement of income prepared in connection with the stockholder meetings for the Transactions, and which pro forma financial statements shall meet the requirements of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and all other applicable accounting rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder, in each case applicable to a registration statement under the
Pro Forma Balance Sheet
Securities Act of 1933 on Form S-4 (the ""); provided that in the event that Financial Statements of the Borrower and the Company shall have been delivered pursuant to Section 4.02(h) above after the date such Pro Forma Financials shall have been mailed to the stockholders of Borrower and the Company, the Pro Forma Financials shall be updated to reflect such newer Financial Statements on a basis consistent with the preparation of the Pro Forma Financials.
Pro Forma Financials
 
(j)         .  The Arrangers shall be satisfied that, on the Closing Date and giving effect to the Transactions (as described in clause (i) above), the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall not exceed 3.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
pro forma
 
(k)        .  The Arrangers shall have received a certificate from the chief financial officer of the Borrower in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers (or, at the Borrower's option, a solvency opinion from an independent investment bank or valuation firm of nationally recognized standing, such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers) certifying that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis immediately after giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to occur on the Closing Date (including without limitation, the funding of the Loans hereunder on the Closing Date and the application of the proceeds thereof), are Solvent.
Solvency Certificate
 
(l)         .  All requisite Governmental Authorities and third parties shall have approved or consented to the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Loan Documents to the extent required, all applicable appeal periods shall have expired and there shall be no litigation, governmental, administrative or judicial action, actual or threatened, that could reasonably be expected to restrain, prevent or impose burdensome conditions on this Agreement or the Loan Documents.
Government Approvals
 
(m)       .  As of the Closing Date, the Borrower Debt Rating shall be BBB- (with no negative outlook) or higher from S&P and Baa3 (with no negative outlook) or higher from Moody's.
Ratings Condition
 
(n)        .  Except (i) as disclosed in the Parent SEC Documents (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 11, 2010 (excluding any risk factor disclosures contained under the heading "Risk Factors," any disclosure of risk included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer or any other statements that are similarly predictive or forward-looking in nature) and (ii) as disclosed in Section 4.07(a) of the Parent Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010), since December 31, 2009, there shall not have occurred any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Borrower Material Adverse Effect (a "").
Borrower Material Adverse Change
e
Borrower Material Adverse Chang
(o)        Except (i) as disclosed in the Company SEC Documents (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 11, 2010 (excluding any risk factor disclosures contained under the heading "Risk Factors," any disclosure of risk included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer or any other statements that are similarly predictive or forward-looking in nature) and (ii) as disclosed in Section 3.07(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010), since September 30, 2009, there shall not have occurred any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect (a "").
Company Material Adverse Change. 
Company Material Adverse Change
 
(p)        . Receipt by each Arranger of a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower certifying as to the matters set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)(i), (e), (f), (g), (j), (l), (m) and (n) above, and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, as to the matters set forth in paragraphs (c)(ii) and (o) above.
Officer's Certificate
 
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders on the Effective Date (solely with respect to the Effective Date Specified Representations) and on the Closing Date that:
 
Section 5.01Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Immaterial Subsidiaries) (a) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and (b) is in good standing (to the extent the concept applies to such entity) under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and is duly qualified and in good standing (to the extent the concept applies to such entity) and is duly authorized to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted or proposed to be conducted except where failure to be in such good standing or so qualified or authorized could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Corporate Existence and Standing. 
 
Section 5.02The Borrower has all requisite power and authority (corporate and otherwise) and legal right to execute and deliver each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder.  The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and the performance of its obligations thereunder have been duly authorized by proper corporate proceedings and such Loan Documents constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
.  Authorization and Validity. 
 
Section 5.03The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have complied in all material respects with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations, orders and
.  Compliance with Laws and Contracts. 
restrictions of any domestic or foreign government, or any instrumentality or agency thereof, having jurisdiction over the conduct of their respective businesses or the ownership of their respective properties, except where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither (i)(A) the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party or (B) the application of the proceeds of the Loans, nor (ii) compliance with the provisions of the Loan Documents will, or at the relevant time did, (a) violate any law, rule, regulation (including Regulation U), order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding on the Borrower or any Subsidiary or the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's charter, articles or certificate of incorporation or by-laws, (b) violate the provisions of or require the approval or consent of any party to any indenture, instrument or agreement to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party or is subject, or by which it, or its property, is bound, or conflict with or constitute a default thereunder, or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien (other than Liens permitted by the Loan Documents) in, of or on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to the terms of any such indenture, instrument or agreement, or (c) require any consent of the stockholders of any Person, except for any violation of, or failure to obtain an approval or consent required under, any such indenture, instrument or agreement that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.04No order, consent, approval, qualification, license, authorization, or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, or other action in respect of, any court, governmental or public body or authority, or any subdivision thereof, any securities exchange or other Person is or at the relevant time was required to authorize, or is or at the relevant time was required in connection with the execution, delivery, consummation or performance of, or the legality, validity, binding effect or enforceability of, any of the Loan Documents or the application of the proceeds of the Loans.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or in violation of any foreign, federal, state or local law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding upon or applicable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary, in each case the consequence of which default or violation could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Governmental Consents. 
 
Section 5.05Each of the Financial Statements was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and fairly presents the consolidated financial condition and operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, the Company and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, at such dates and the consolidated results of their operations for the respective periods then ended (except, in the case of such unaudited statements, for normal year-end audit adjustments).
.  Financial Statements. 
 
Section 5.06No Material Adverse Change has occurred.
.  Material Adverse Change. 
 
Section 5.07The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed on a timely basis and in correct form all United States federal, state and other material tax returns which are required to be filed and have paid all taxes due pursuant to said returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided in
.  Taxes. 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and as to which no Lien exists.  As of the date hereof, the United States income tax returns of the Borrower on a consolidated basis have been audited by the Internal Revenue Service through its Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2006.  No tax liens have been filed and no claims are being asserted with respect to any such taxes which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect of any taxes or other governmental charges are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Section 5.08There is no litigation, arbitration, proceeding, inquiry or governmental investigation (including, without limitation, by the Federal Trade Commission) pending or, to the knowledge of any of their officers, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective Properties that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or to prevent, enjoin or unduly delay the making of any Credit Extensions under this Agreement, except for Disclosed Claims.
.  Litigation and Contingent Obligations. 
 
Section 5.09Neither the Borrower nor any other member of the Controlled Group maintains, or is obligated to contribute to, any Multiemployer Plan or has incurred, or is reasonably expected to incur, any withdrawal liability to any Multiemployer Plan.  Each Plan complies in all material respects with its terms and with all applicable requirements of law and regulations.  Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has, with respect to any Plan, failed to make any contribution or pay any amount required under Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA or the terms of such Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions, investigations or lawsuits against any Plan, any fiduciary thereof, or the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group with respect to a Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has engaged in any prohibited transaction (as defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) in connection with any Plan which would subject such Person to any material liability.  No Termination Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  ERISA. 
 
Section 5.10No Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.
.  Defaults. 
 
Section 5.11Margin Stock constitutes less than 25% of those assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which are subject to any limitation on sale, pledge or other restriction hereunder.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is engaged, directly or indirectly, principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending, or arranging for the extension of, credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.  No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used in a manner which would violate, or result in a violation of, Regulation U.  Neither the making of any Advance hereunder nor the use of the proceeds thereof will violate or be inconsistent with the provisions of Regulation U.
.  Regulation U. 
Section 5.12Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is, or after giving effect to any Advance will be, an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
.  Investment Company. 
 
Section 5.13As of the date of this Agreement, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have a subsisting leasehold interest in, or good and marketable title, free of all Liens, other than those permitted by Section 6.12 or by any of the other Loan Documents, to all of the properties and assets reflected in the Financial Statements delivered on or prior to the date hereof as being owned by it, except for assets sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business since the date thereof.  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own or possess rights to use all licenses, patents, patent applications, copyrights, service marks, trademarks and trade names necessary to continue to conduct their business as currently conducted, and no such license, patent or trademark has been declared invalid, been limited by order of any court or by agreement or is the subject of any infringement, interference or similar proceeding or challenge, except for proceedings and challenges which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Ownership of Properties. 
 
Section 5.14Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or other corporate restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which restricts or imposes conditions upon the ability of any Subsidiary to (a) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock, (b) make loans or advances to the Borrower or (c) repay loans or advances from the Borrower.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any agreement to which it is a party, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Material Agreements. 
 
Section 5.15There are no claims, investigations, litigation, administrative proceedings, notices, requests for information, whether pending or threatened, or judgments or orders asserting violations of applicable federal, state and local environmental, health and safety statutes, regulations, ordinances, codes, rules, orders, decrees, directives and standards ("") or relating to any toxic or hazardous waste, substance or chemical or any pollutant, contaminant, chemical or other substance defined or regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, asbestos, petroleum, crude oil or any fraction thereof ("") asserted against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which, in any case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary has caused or permitted any Hazardous Materials to be Released, either on or under real property, currently or formerly, legally or beneficially owned or operated by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or on or under real property to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries transported, arranged for the transport or disposal of, or disposed of Hazardous Materials, which Release could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Environmental Laws. 
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
 
Section 5.16The Borrower and its Subsidiaries maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance on their Property in such amounts and covering such risks as is consistent with sound business practice.
.  Insurance. 
 
Section 5.17No material license, permit or authorization of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to engage in the business of insurance or insurance-related activities is the subject of a proceeding for suspension or revocation, except where such suspension or revocation would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Insurance Licenses. 
 
Section 5.18None of the (a) information, exhibits or reports furnished or to be furnished by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender in connection with the negotiation of the Loan Documents (including for the avoidance of doubt the Confidential Information Memorandum but excluding any projections) or (b) representations or warranties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary contained in this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, or any other document, certificate or written statement furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, as the case may be, when taken together, as of the date of its delivery, contained, contains or will contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted, omits or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances in which the same were made.  The projections that have been or will be made available to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon accounting principles consistent with the historical audited financial statements of the Borrower and the Company (except as otherwise expressly disclosed in such projections) and upon assumptions that the Borrower believes to have been reasonable at the time made and at the time the related projections are made available to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender (it being understood that any such projections are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Borrower's control, that no assurance can be given that such projections will be realized and that actual results may differ from such projections and that such differences may be material).  As of the date hereof, there is no fact known to the Borrower (other than matters of a general economic nature) that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that has not been disclosed herein or in such other documents, certificates and statements furnished to the Lenders for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
.  Disclosure. 
 
Section 5.19.  .  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis immediately after giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to occur on the Closing Date (including without limitation, the funding of the Loans hereunder on the Closing Date and the application of the proceeds thereof), are Solvent.
Solvency
 
Section 5.20.  The Obligations hereunder constitute "Senior Debt" (or the equivalent thereof) and "Designated Senior Debt" (or the equivalent thereof) under documentation governing subordinated Indebtedness permitted hereunder.
.  Senior Debt
Section 5.21
.   
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
To the Knowledge of the Borrower, (i)(a) as of the date hereof and (b) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, as of the Closing Date, it is in compliance in all material respects with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "") and any other United States and foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments, (ii) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, between January 1, 2008 and the Closing Date and except as listed on Schedule 5.21 hereto, the Borrower has not been investigated by any Governmental Entity (as defined in the Merger Agreement) with respect to, or been given notice by a Governmental Entity of, any violation by the Borrower of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other United States or foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments and (iii) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have an operational Foreign Corrupt Practices Act/anticorruption compliance program that includes, at a minimum, policies, procedures and training intended to enhance awareness of and compliance by the Borrower or such Subsidiary with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any other applicable United States or foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
So long as any Loan shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
 
Section 6.01The Borrower will maintain, for itself and its Subsidiaries, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, and will furnish to the Lenders:
.  Financial Reporting. 
 
(a)        (i) As soon as practicable and in any event within ninety (90) days after the close of each of its Fiscal Years, an unqualified audit report certified by independent certified public accountants, acceptable to the Lenders, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis for itself and its Subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of the end of such period and related statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows accompanied by (A) any management letter prepared by said accountants and (B) a certificate of said accountants that, in the course of their examination necessary for their certification of the foregoing, they have obtained no knowledge of any Default or Unmatured Default, or if, in the opinion of such accountants, any Default or Unmatured Default shall exist, stating the nature and status thereof.
 
(ii)  If the Closing Date has not occurred, as soon as practicable upon the same being made available by the Company to the Borrower, an unqualified audit report for the fiscal year of the Company ending September 30, 2010 certified by nationally recognized independent certified accountants, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis for the Company and its subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of the end of such period and related statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for such period;
provided
that the Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such audit report from the Company promptly following the due date for delivery thereof in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
 
(b)        (i) As soon as practicable and in any event within 45 days after the close of the first three Fiscal Quarters of each of its Fiscal Years, for itself and its Subsidiaries, consolidated unaudited balance sheets as at the close of each such period and consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the period from the beginning of such Fiscal Year to the end of such quarter, all certified by its president or chief financial officer.
 
(ii)  If the Closing Date has not occurred, as soon as practicable upon the same being made available by the Company to the Borrower, for the Company and its subsidiaries, consolidated unaudited balance sheets as of the close of any fiscal quarter of the Company ending during the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the Closing Date, and consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the period from the beginning of such fiscal year to the end of such fiscal quarter, all certified by the Company's president or chief financial officer that the Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such unaudited balance sheets from the Company promptly following the due date for delivery thereof in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
provided
 
(c)        Together with the financial statements required by clauses (a)(i) and (b)(i) above, a certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto signed by the Borrower's president or chief financial officer (i) showing the calculations necessary to determine compliance with Section 6.12(k), 6.16(e), 6.17 and 6.19(h), that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 6.17, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to Agreement Accounting Principles, and (ii) stating that no Default or Unmatured Default exists, or if any Default or Unmatured Default exists, stating the nature and status thereof.
provided
 
(d)        Promptly upon learning thereof, notice that a Single Employer Plan of the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group is in "at risk" status within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA or Section 430(i)(4) of the Code, and within 270 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, a statement of the Funded Target Attainment Percentage of each Single Employer Plan, certified as correct by an actuary enrolled under ERISA.
 
(e)        As soon as possible and in any event within ten (10) days after the Borrower knows that any Termination Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, a statement, signed by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, describing said Termination Event and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto; that no such notice shall be required to be given unless either (i) such Termination Event could reasonably be expected to result in liabilities of the Borrower in excess of $25,000,000 or (ii) the occurrence of such Termination Event would trigger a requirement to deliver notice under Section 6.1(e) of the Existing Credit Facility or Section 20.7(b) of the Euro Facility.
provided
(f)         As soon as possible and in any event within ten (10) days after the Borrower learns thereof, notice of the assertion or commencement of any claims, action, suit or proceeding against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(g)        Promptly upon learning thereof, notice of any change in the credit rating of the Borrower's senior unsecured long term debt by S&P or Moody's.
 
(h)        Promptly upon the furnishing thereof to the shareholders of the Borrower, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so furnished (or links to pages on the Borrower's website where such information may be accessed).
 
(i)         Promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements and annual, quarterly, monthly or other regular reports which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (or links to pages on the Borrower's website where such information may be accessed).
 
(j)         Such other information (including, without limitation, non financial information and information required under the USA PATRIOT Act) as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 6.02The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions, together with the proceeds of the Senior Notes and Bridge Loans, as applicable, solely to (a) pay a portion of the Merger Consideration, (b) refinance certain of the existing Indebtedness of the Company and (c) pay the Transaction Costs.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, use any of the proceeds of the Advances (i) to purchase or carry any "margin stock" (as defined in Regulation U) or to finance the acquisition of any Person which has not been approved and recommended by the board of directors (or functional equivalent thereof) of such Person or (ii) in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any other United States and foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments.
.  Use of Proceeds. 
 
Section 6.03The Borrower will give prompt notice in writing to the Lenders of the occurrence of (a) any Default or Unmatured Default and (b) any other event or development, financial or other, relating specifically to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (and not of a general economic or political nature) which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Notice of Default. 
 
Section 6.04The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, (a) carry on and conduct its business in substantially the same manner and in substantially the same fields of enterprise as it is presently conducted, and will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage in any business other than (i) businesses in the same fields of enterprise as now conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) businesses that are reasonably related or incidental thereto or that, in the judgment of the board of directors of the Borrower, are reasonably expected to materially enhance the other businesses
.  Conduct of Business. 
in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged, and (b) do all things necessary to remain duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization and maintain all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted, except where failure to be in such good standing or so qualified or authorized could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; , , that nothing in this Section 6.04 shall prohibit the dissolution or sale, transfer or other disposition of any Subsidiary that is not otherwise prohibited by this Agreement.
provided
however
 
Section 6.05The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, timely file complete and correct United States federal and applicable foreign, state and local tax returns required by applicable law and pay when due all taxes, assessments and governmental charges and levies upon it or its income, profits or Property, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves have been set aside.
.  Taxes. 
 
Section 6.06The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all their Property in such amounts and covering such risks as is consistent with sound business practice, and the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and any Lender upon request full information as to the insurance carried.
.  Insurance. 
 
Section 6.07The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees or awards to which it may be subject, the failure to comply with which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Compliance with Laws. 
 
Section 6.08The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, do all things necessary to maintain, preserve, protect and keep its Property in good repair, working order and condition, and make all necessary and proper repairs, renewals and replacements so that its business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times.
.  Maintenance of Properties. 
 
Section 6.09The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, permit the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, by their respective representatives and agents, to inspect any of the Property, corporate books and financial records of the Borrower and each Subsidiary, to examine and make copies of the books of accounts and other financial records of the Borrower and each Subsidiary, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and each Subsidiary with, and to be advised as to the same by, their respective officers at such reasonable times and intervals as the Lenders may designate.  The Borrower will keep or cause to be kept, and cause each Subsidiary to keep or cause to be kept, appropriate records and books of account in which complete entries are to be made reflecting its and their business and financial transactions, such entries to be made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
.  Inspection. 
Section 6.10So long as any Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing before or immediately after giving effect thereto, the Borrower will not declare or pay any dividends or make any distributions on its capital stock (other than dividends payable in its own capital stock) or redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire or retire any of its capital stock or any options or other rights in respect thereof at any time outstanding.
.  Capital Stock and Dividends. 
 
Section 6.11The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, merge or consolidate with or into any other Person, except that (a) a wholly-owned Subsidiary may merge into the Borrower or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, (b) the Borrower or any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Person so long as, in the case of a merger or consolidation to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower is the surviving corporation, and, in the case of a merger or consolidation to which a Subsidiary is a party and to which the Borrower is not a party, the surviving corporation is a Subsidiary, and in any such case, prior to and after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Unmatured Default shall exist and (c) any Subsidiary may enter into a merger or consolidation as a means of effecting a disposition or acquisition which would not result in a Default or Unmatured Default.
.  Merger. 
 
Section 6.12The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, or suffer to exist any Lien in, of or on the Property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except:
.  Liens. 
 
(a)        Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies on its Property if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting shall have been set aside on its books;
 
(b)        Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's and mechanics' liens and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business which secure the payment of obligations not more than sixty (60) days past due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves shall have been set aside on its books;
 
(c)        Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation;
 
(d)        Utility easements, building restrictions and such other encumbrances or charges against real property as are of a nature generally existing with respect to properties of a similar character and which do not in any material way affect the marketability of the same or interfere with the use thereof in the business of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries;
 
(e)        Banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights in favor of a depository institution with respect to deposit accounts maintained with a depository institution in the ordinary course
of business and securing obligations with respect to the maintenance of such accounts (and in no event securing any Indebtedness or other obligations);
 
(f)         Any Lien arising by operation of law in the ordinary course of business in respect of any obligation which is less than sixty (60) days overdue or which is being contested in good faith and by appropriate means and for which adequate reserves have been made;
 
(g)        Liens created by any of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries over deposits and investments in the ordinary course of such Person's insurance and reinsurance business to comply with the requirements of any regulatory body of insurance or insurance brokerage business;
 
(h)        Any Liens arising for the benefit of a credit institution pursuant to Clause 24 General Banking Conditions of the Netherlands Bankers Association () in respect of any bank account held with a credit institution in the Netherlands;
Algemene Voorwaarden van de Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken
 
(i)         Liens over and limited to the balance of credit balances on bank accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries created in order to facilitate the operation of such bank accounts and other bank accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a net balance basis with credit balances and debit balances on the various accounts being netted off for interest purposes;
 
(j)         Liens, if any, arising in connection with a Cananwill Securitization; and
 
(k)       Other Liens securing an aggregate principal amount of obligations at no time exceeding an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of Consolidated Net Worth at such time.
 
Section 6.13The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction (including, without limitation, the purchase or sale of any Property or service) with, or make any payment or transfer to, any Affiliate except (a) for transactions between the Borrower and any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower or between Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower or (b) in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to the reasonable requirements of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than the Borrower or such Subsidiary would obtain in a comparable arm's length transaction.
.  Affiliates. 
 
Section 6.14The Borrower shall not change its Fiscal Year to end on any date other than December 31 of each year.
.  Change in Fiscal Year. 
 
Section 6.15The Borrower (a) shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement which, directly or indirectly prohibits, or has the effect of prohibiting, or imposes materially adverse conditions upon, the ability of any Subsidiary to (i) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, (ii) make loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or (iii) repay loans or advances from the Borrower or any other
.  Restrictive Agreements. 
Subsidiary, except (A) restrictions and limitations imposed by Law or by the Loan Documents, (B) customary restrictions and limitations contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets that is permitted hereunder, (C) restrictions and conditions imposed by agreements relating to Indebtedness of any Subsidiary in existence at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Subsidiary becoming a Subsidiary (or any refinancing or amendment thereof that does not result in a materially more restrictive restriction or condition); that such restrictions and conditions apply only to such Subsidiary and its respective Subsidiaries, (D) restrictions set forth in the Bridge Credit Agreement, (E) in the case of any Subsidiary that is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary, customary restrictions and conditions imposed by its organizational documents or any joint venture or similar agreement, (F) solely for the first 60 days following the Closing Date, restrictions set forth in any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is party as of the date hereof and (G) any other restrictions that could not reasonably be expected to impair the Borrower's ability to repay the Obligations as and when due and (b) shall comply with Section 6.15 of the Existing Credit Facility and Section 22.16 of the Euro Facility, in each case as if references therein to the "Obligations", were references to the Obligations, references to the "Loan Documents" or the "Finance Documents" were references to the Loan Documents and references to the "Advances" or the "Loans" were references to the Advances.
provided
 
Section 6.16The Borrower will not make any Disposition or permit any Subsidiary to make any Disposition, except:
.  Dispositions. 
 
(a)        Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
 
(b)        Dispositions of Property to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower;
 
(c)        Dispositions by Subsidiaries primarily engaged in insurance underwriting or related activities from their investment portfolios in the ordinary course of business;
 
(d)        Dispositions of investments in cash equivalents in the usual course of treasury business; and
 
(e)        Any other Disposition of Property which represents no more than 25% of the Consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as would be shown in the Consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the quarter immediately preceding the date on which such determination is made, to any other Person(s) in any Fiscal Year.
 
Section 6.17
.  Financial Covenants.
 
(a)        .  The Borrower will maintain as of the last day of each Measurement Period a ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense
(b)        The Borrower will maintain as of the last day of each Measurement Period a Consolidated Leverage Ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio. 
 
Section 6.18The Borrower will (a) fulfill, and cause each member of the Controlled Group to fulfill, its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, (b) comply, and cause each member of the Controlled Group to comply, with all applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, except where such failure or noncompliance individually or in the aggregate would not have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) not, and not permit any member of the Controlled Group to, (i) seek a waiver of the minimum funding standards under ERISA, (ii) terminate or withdraw from any Plan or (iii) take any other action with respect to any Plan which would reasonably be expected to entitle the PBGC to terminate, impose liability in respect of, or cause a trustee to be appointed to administer, any Plan, unless the actions or events described in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) individually or in the aggregate would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  ERISA. 
 
Section 6.19The Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
.  Indebtedness. 
 
(a)        Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
 
(b)        Indebtedness under the Euro Facility, and any renewal and refinancing thereof, provided (i) that the committed amount thereof is not increased to an aggregate amount greater than the lesser of (A) 850,000,000 and (B) the amount permitted under Section 6.19(b) of the Existing Credit Agreement and (ii) no other Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary that becomes a borrower thereunder) becomes obligated in respect thereof;
 
(c)        Indebtedness owed to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower;
 
(d)        Indebtedness under performance bonds, surety bonds or letter of credit obligations to provide security under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation, and bank overdrafts, in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)        Indebtedness of any Subsidiary existing as of the date hereof (other than Indebtedness described in clause (a) or (b) above), and any renewal and refinancing thereof (including any other Subsidiary becoming a primary obligor in respect thereof); that the principal amount thereof is not increased;
provided
 
(f)         Indebtedness under Hedging Agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business and not for speculative purposes;
 
(g)        Indebtedness (to the extent such Indebtedness either (i) arises under clause (i) of the definition of "Indebtedness" or (ii) would not be reflected as indebtedness on a balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, calculated on a consolidated basis) under any Cananwill Securitization; and
(h)        Other Indebtedness in an aggregate amount outstanding at any time not to exceed 1,500,000,000 the amount of Indebtedness then outstanding under the Euro Facility and any renewal or refinancing thereof.
minus
 
Section 7.01The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute a Default:
.  Defaults. 
 
(a)        Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under or in connection with this Agreement, any other Loan Document, any Credit Extension, or any certificate or information delivered in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be false in any material respect on the date as of which made or deemed made;
 
(b)        Nonpayment of any principal of any Loan when due or nonpayment of any interest upon any Loan or of any fee or obligation under any of the Loan Documents within three (3) Business Days after the same becomes due;
 
(c)        The breach by the Borrower of any of the terms or provisions of Section 6.02, 6.03(a) or Section 6.10 through 6.19;
 
(d)        The breach by the Borrower (other than a breach which constitutes a Default under clauses (a), (b) or (c) of this Section 7.01) of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement which is not remedied within twenty (20) days after written notice from the Administrative Agent or any Lender;
 
(e)        The occurrence of a Default (as defined in the Bridge Credit Agreement); or the failure of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to pay any Indebtedness aggregating in excess of $25,000,000 when due; or the default by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the performance of any term, provision or condition contained in any agreement or agreements under which any such Indebtedness was created or is governed, or the occurrence of any other event or existence of any other condition, the effect of any of which is to cause such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity; or any such Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be declared to be due and payable or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled payment) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
 
(f)         The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Immaterial Subsidiaries) shall (i) have an order for relief entered with respect to it under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect, (ii) make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, (iii) apply for, seek, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a receiver, custodian, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official for it or any Substantial Portion of its Property, (iv) institute any proceeding
seeking an order for relief under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors or fail to file an answer or other pleading denying the material allegations of any such proceeding filed against it, (v) take any corporate action to authorize or effect any of the foregoing actions set forth in this Section 7.01(f), (vi) fail to contest in good faith any appointment or proceeding described in Section 7.01(g) or (vii) become unable to pay, not pay, or admit in writing its inability to pay, its debts generally as they become due.
 
(g)        Without the application, approval or consent of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, a receiver, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official shall be appointed for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any Substantial Portion of its Property or a proceeding described in Section 7.01(f)(iv) shall be instituted against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and such appointment continues undischarged or such proceeding continues undismissed or unstayed for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days.
 
(h)        Any court, government or governmental agency shall condemn, seize or otherwise appropriate, or take custody or control of (each, a ""), all or any portion of the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which, when taken together with all other Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries so condemned, seized, appropriated, or taken custody or control of, during the twelve month period ending with the month in which any such Condemnation occurs, constitutes a Substantial Portion.
Condemnation
 
(i)         The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail within thirty (30) days to pay, bond or otherwise discharge any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $25,000,000 (or multiple judgments or orders for the payment of an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000), which is not stayed on appeal or otherwise being appropriately contested in good faith and as to which no enforcement actions have been commenced.
 
(j)         Any Change in Control shall occur.
 
(k)        Any Termination Event shall occur in connection with any Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 8.01(a)  If any Default described in Section 7.01(f) or 7.01(g) occurs with respect to the Borrower, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall automatically terminate and the Obligations shall immediately become due and payable without any election or action on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.  If any other Default occurs, the Required Lenders (or the Administrative Agent with the consent or
.  Acceleration. 
upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) may terminate or suspend the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, or declare the Obligations to be due and payable, or both, whereupon the Obligations shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which the Borrower hereby expressly waives.
 
(b)        If, within ten (10) Business Days after (i) acceleration of the maturity of the Obligations or (ii) termination of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder as a result of any Default (other than any Default as described in Section 7.01(f) or 7.01(g) with respect to the Borrower) and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the Obligations due shall have been obtained or entered, the Required Lenders, in their sole discretion, shall so direct the Administrative Agent, then the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrower, rescind and annul such acceleration and/or termination.
 
Section 8.02Subject to the provisions of this Article 8, the Required Lenders (or the Administrative Agent with the consent in writing of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower may enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding or modifying any provisions to the Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or the Borrower hereunder or thereunder or waiving any Default hereunder or thereunder; , , that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby:
.  Amendments. 
provided
however
 
(a)        Extend the Maturity Date, or the date for any scheduled payment of principal hereunder, compromise or forgive the principal amount of any Loan, or reduce the rate of interest or compromise or forgive payment of interest on any Loan, or reduce the amount of, or compromise or forgive payment of, any fee payable hereunder;
 
(b)        Reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders;
 
(c)        Increase the amount of the Commitment of any Lender hereunder;
 
(d)        Amend this Section 8.02;
 
(e)        Permit any assignment by the Borrower of its Obligations or its rights hereunder;
 
(f)         Postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on any Loan or the date fixed for any payment of fees or other amounts due hereunder; or
 
(g)        Change any provision hereof in a manner that would alter the funding of Loans required by Section 2.03 or the sharing of payments required by Section 2.12 or Section 11.02.
pro rata
pro rata
 
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement may be amended with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (i) to add one or more additional term loan facilities to this Agreement and to permit the extensions of credit and all related obligations and liabilities arising in connection therewith from time to
 
time outstanding to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the obligations and liabilities from time to time outstanding in respect of the existing facilities hereunder, and (ii) in connection with the foregoing, to permit, as deemed appropriate by the Administrative Agent and approved by the Required Lenders, the Lenders providing such additional credit facilities to participate in any required vote or action required to be approved by the Required Lenders or by any other number, percentage or class of Lenders hereunder.
 
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement relating to the Administrative Agent shall be effective without the written consent of the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may waive payment of the fee required under Section 12.03(b) without obtaining the consent of any other party to this Agreement.
 
Section 8.03No delay or omission of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent to exercise any right under the Loan Documents shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of any Default or Unmatured Default or an acquiescence therein, and the making of a Credit Extension notwithstanding the existence of a Default or Unmatured Default or the inability of the Borrower to satisfy the conditions precedent to such Credit Extension shall not constitute any waiver or acquiescence.  Any single or partial exercise of any such right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, and no waiver, amendment or other variation of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Loan Documents whatsoever shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Lenders required pursuant to Section 8.02, and then only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth.  All remedies contained in the Loan Documents or by law afforded shall be cumulative and all shall be available to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders until the Obligations have been paid in full.
.  Preservation of Rights. 
 
Section 9.01All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement or of the Borrower or any Subsidiary contained in any Loan Document shall survive the making of the Credit Extensions herein contemplated.
.  Survival of Representations. 
 
Section 9.02Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no Lender shall be obligated to extend credit to the Borrower in violation of any limitation or prohibition provided by any applicable statute or regulation.
.  Governmental Regulation. 
 
Section 9.03 Section headings in the Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
.  Headings.
Section 9.04The Loan Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders relating to the subject matter thereof other than the Fee Letter, the Commitment Letter and the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter.
.  Entire Agreement. 
 
Section 9.05The respective obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint and no Lender shall be the partner or agent of any other (except to the extent to which the Administrative Agent is authorized to act as such).  The failure of any Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.  This Agreement shall not be construed so as to confer any right or benefit upon any Person other than the parties to this Agreement, the Indemnified Persons and their respective successors and assigns; , , that the parties hereto expressly agree that each of the Arrangers shall enjoy the benefits of the provisions of Section 9.06, 9.10 and 10.08 to the extent specifically set forth therein and shall have the right to enforce such provisions on its own behalf and in its own name to the same extent as if it were a party to this Agreement.
.  Several Obligations; Benefits of this Agreement. 
provided
however
 
Section 9.06.  .  (a) The Borrower agrees to pay all (i) reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers in connection with the syndication of the Loans and the preparation and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions hereby or thereby contemplated shall be consummated) or (ii) expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, any Co-Arranger or any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including the fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers and the Lenders; that in the case of clause (i), Borrower shall only be required to pay the fees, charges and disbursement for one counsel for all such Persons (and, if reasonably necessary, of one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in any relevant jurisdiction for all such Persons and additional counsel if, in the opinion of any such Person, representation of all such Persons by one counsel would be inappropriate due to the existence of an actual or potential conflict of interest).
Expenses; Indemnification
provided
 
(b)        The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Agent, each Arranger, each Co-Arranger, each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnified Person harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including charges, disbursements and fees of counsel, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Person arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties thereto of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated thereby (including the syndication of the Loans), (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Loans, (iii)
Indemnified Person
any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnified Person is a party thereto (and regardless of whether such matter is initiated by a third party or by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective Affiliates), or (iv) any actual or alleged presence or Release of Hazardous Materials on any property currently or formerly owned or operated by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or the Subsidiaries; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnified Person, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are found in a final, non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from (A) the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnified Person or (B) a material breach in bad faith by the relevant Indemnified Person of the express contractual obligations of such Indemnified Person under this Agreement or (y) except with respect to clause (iv) of this Section 9.06(b), arise out of or in connection with any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding that does not involve an act or omission of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates and that is brought by an Indemnified Person against any other Indemnified Person (excluding any claim brought against any Arranger, Co-Arranger or Agent in their capacity as such).  For purposes hereof, "" means all liabilities, obligations, damages, losses, claims, actions, suits, judgments, orders, fines, penalties, fees, expenses and costs (including administrative oversight costs, natural resource damages and remediation costs), whether contingent or otherwise, arising out of or relating to (a) compliance or non-compliance with any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the Release of any Hazardous Materials or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
provided
Environmental Liability
 
(c)        To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph Section 9.06 or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such.
pro rata
provided
 
(d)        To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnified Person, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
 
(e)        The provisions of this Section 9.06 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Loans, the expiration of the Commitments, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Administrative
Agent.  All amounts due under this Section 9.06 shall be payable within fifteen (15) Business Days of the Borrower's receipt of written demand therefor.
 
Section 9.07All statements, notices, closing documents, and requests hereunder shall be furnished to the Administrative Agent with sufficient counterparts so that the Administrative Agent may furnish one to each of the Lenders.
.  Numbers of Documents. 
 
Section 9.08Except as provided to the contrary herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
.  Accounting. 
 
Section 9.09Any provision in any Loan Document that is held to be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability, or validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction, and to this end the provisions of all Loan Documents are declared to be severable.
.  Severability of Provisions. 
 
Section 9.10The relationship between the Borrower on the one hand and the Lenders and the Administrative Agent on the other hand shall be solely that of borrower and lender.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary responsibilities to the Borrower.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender undertakes any responsibility to the Borrower to review or inform the Borrower of any matter in connection with any phase of the Borrower's business or operations.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender shall have any liability with respect to, and the Borrower hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue for, any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages suffered by the Borrower in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to the Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby.
.  Nonliability of Lenders. 
 
Section 9.11Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives, and third party settlement providers (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions no less restrictive than those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) any actual
.  Confidentiality. 
or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
 
Without limiting Section 9.04, the Borrower agrees that the terms of this Section 9.11 shall set forth the entire agreement between the Borrower and each Lender (including the Administrative Agent) with respect to any confidential information previously or hereafter received by such Lender in connection with this Agreement, and this Section 9.11 shall supersede any and all prior confidentiality agreements entered into by such Lender with respect to such confidential information.
 
Section 9.12The Borrower and each Lender hereby acknowledge and agree that the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers and/or their Affiliates from time to time may hold investments in, make other loans to or have other relationships with the Borrower and its Affiliates.
.  Disclosure. 
 
Section 9.13Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT ACT, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the USA PATRIOT ACT.  The Borrower shall provide such information promptly upon the request of a Lender.
.  USA PATRIOT ACT NOTIFICATION. 
 
Section 10.01.  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Credit Suisse AG to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and
Authorization and Authority
to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Other than Section 10.06, the provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
 
Section 10.02.  . (a) The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Administrative Agent Individually
 
(b)           Each Lender understands that the Person serving as Administrative Agent, acting in its individual capacity, and its Affiliates (collectively, the "") are engaged in a wide range of financial services and businesses (including investment management, financing, securities trading, corporate and investment banking and research) (such services and businesses are collectively referred to in this Section 10.02 as "") and may engage in the Activities with or on behalf of the Borrower or its Affiliates.  Furthermore, the Agent's Group may, in undertaking the Activities, engage in trading in financial products or undertake other investment businesses for its own account or on behalf of others (including the Borrower and its Affiliates and including holding, for its own account or on behalf of others, equity, debt and similar positions in the Borrower or its Affiliates), including trading in or holding long, short or derivative positions in securities, loans or other financial products of one or more of the Borrower and its Affiliates.  Each Lender understands and agrees that in engaging in the Activities, the Agent's Group may receive or otherwise obtain information concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents) which information may not be available to any of the Lenders that are not members of the Agent's Group.  None of the Administrative Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall have any duty to disclose to any Lender or use on behalf of the Lenders, and shall not be liable for the failure to so disclose or use, any information whatsoever about or derived from the Activities or otherwise (including any information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof) or to account for any revenue or profits obtained in connection with the Activities, except that the Administrative Agent shall deliver or otherwise make available to each Lender such documents as are expressly required by any Loan Document to be transmitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders.
Agent's Group
Activities
 
(c)           Each Lender further understands that there may be situations where members of the Agent's Group or their respective customers (including the Borrower and its Affiliates) either
now have or may in the future have interests or take actions that may conflict with the interests of any one or more of the Lenders (including the interests of the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents).  Each Lender agrees that no member of the Agent's Group is or shall be required to restrict its activities as a result of the Person serving as Administrative Agent being a member of the Agent's Group, and that each member of the Agent's Group may undertake any Activities without further consultation with or notification to any Lender.  None of (i) this Agreement nor any other Loan Document, (ii) the receipt by the Agent's Group of information (including Information) concerning the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents) nor (iii) any other matter shall give rise to any fiduciary or equitable duties (including without limitation any duty of trust or confidence) owing by the Administrative Agent or any member of the Agent's Group to any Lender including any such duty that would prevent or restrict the Agent's Group from acting on behalf of customers (including the Borrower or its Affiliates) or for its own account.
 
Section 10.03.  .  (a) The Administrative Agent's duties hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, but shall be required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the written direction of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), provided that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law.
Duties of Administrative Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
 
(b)        The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 or 8.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or Unmatured Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default or Unmatured Default unless and until the Borrower or any Lender shall have given written notice to the Administrative Agent describing such Default or Unmatured Default and such event or events.
 
(c)        Neither the Administrative Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of
the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default or Unmatured Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
(d)        Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall require the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any "know your customer" or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Administrative Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties.
 
Section 10.04.  .  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Administrative Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan, and such Lender shall not have made available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Advance.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
Section 10.05.  .  The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  Each such sub agent and the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and each such sub agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article 10 and Section 9.06 (as though such sub-agents were the "Administrative Agent" under the Loan Documents) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
Section 10.06.  .  The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the Borrower unless a Default has occurred and is continuing (and otherwise in consultation with the Borrower)(that such consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and shall be deemed to have been given if the Borrower has not responded within five Business Days of the Borrower's receipt of a written notice requesting such consent), to appoint a successor.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ""), then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Administrative Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Administrative Agent, the retiring Administrative Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Administrative Agent and the effective date of such retiring Administrative Agent's resignation.  Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Administrative Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (ii) all payments and communications provided to be made to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly and (iii) all determinations to be made by the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by the Required Lenders, in each case, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this paragraph.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Administrative Agent of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.06 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
Resignation of Administrative Agent
provided
Lender Appointment Period
 
Section 10.07.  .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
 
(a)        Each Lender confirms to the Administrative Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties,
of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) (x) of entering into this Agreement, (y) of making Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (z) in taking or not taking actions hereunder and thereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determined that entering into this Agreement and making Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder and under the other Loan Documents is suitable and appropriate for it.
 
(b)        Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information, as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:
 
(i)        the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Borrower;
 
(ii)       the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with any Loan Document;
 
(iii)      determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition; and
 
(iv)     the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information delivered by the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with any Loan Document.
 
Section 10.08.    None of the Lenders (or Affiliates of Lenders) identified in this Agreement as the "Syndication Agent" or "Arrangers" or "Co-Arrangers" or "Co-Documentation Agents" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement in such identified capacity other than those (in the case of those who are Lenders) applicable to all Lenders as such.  Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders (or Affiliates of Lenders) shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender.  Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to such
No Other Duties, Etc.
Lenders (and such Affiliates) as it makes with respect to the Administrative Agent in Section 10.07.
 
Section 11.01In addition to, and without limitation of, any rights of the Lenders under applicable law, if the Borrower becomes insolvent, however evidenced, or any Default occurs, any and all deposits (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) and any other Indebtedness at any time held or owing by any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender to or for the credit or account of the Borrower may be offset and applied toward the payment of the Obligations owing to such Lender, whether or not the Obligations, or any part thereof, shall then be due.
.  Setoff. 
 
Section 11.02If any Lender, whether by setoff or otherwise, has payment made to it upon its Outstanding Credit Exposure (other than payments received pursuant to Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 3.05 or 9.06) in a greater proportion than that received by any other Lender, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase a portion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure held by the other Lenders so that after such purchase each Lender will hold its ratable proportion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.  If any Lender, whether in connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise, receives collateral or other protection for its Obligations or such amounts which may be subject to setoff, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to take such action necessary such that all Lenders share in the benefits of such collateral ratably in proportion to their respective Outstanding Credit Exposure.  In case any such payment is disturbed by legal process, or otherwise, appropriate further adjustments shall be made.
.  Ratable Payments. 
 
Section 12.01The terms and provisions of the Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights or obligations under the Loan Documents, (ii) any assignment by any Lender must be made in compliance with Section 12.03 and (iii) any participation must be made in compliance with Section 12.02.  Any attempted assignment or transfer by any party not made in compliance with this Section 12.01 shall be null and void, unless such attempted assignment or transfer is treated as a participation in accordance with Section 12.03(b).  The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that clause (ii) of this Section 12.01 relates only to absolute assignments and this Section 12.01 does not prohibit assignments creating security interests, including, without limitation, (A) any pledge or assignment by any Lender of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to secure obligations of such Lender,
.  Successors and Assigns. 
including to a Federal Reserve Bank, the European Central Bank or any other central bank to which such Lender reports ( that, no such pledge or assignment shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender party hereto) or (B) in the case of a Lender which is a Fund, any pledge or assignment of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to its trustee in support of its obligations to its trustee; , , that no such pledge or assignment creating a security interest shall release the transferor Lender from its obligations hereunder unless and until the parties thereto have complied with the provisions of Section 12.03.  The Administrative Agent may treat the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes hereof unless and until such Person complies with Section 12.03; , , that the Administrative Agent may in its discretion (but shall not be required to) follow instructions from the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note to direct payments relating to such Loan or Note to another Person.  Any assignee of the rights to any Loan or any Note agrees by acceptance of such assignment to be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Loan Documents.  Any request, authority or consent of any Person, who at the time of making such request or giving such authority or consent is the owner of the rights to any Loan (whether or not a Note has been issued in evidence thereof), shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent holder or assignee of the rights to such Loan.
provided
provided
however
provided
however
 
Section 12.02(a) .  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("") participating interests in any Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Lender, any Note held by such Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender under the Loan Documents.  In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, such Lender shall remain the owner of its Outstanding Credit Exposure and the holder of any Note issued to it in evidence thereof for all purposes under the Loan Documents, all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating interests, and the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under the Loan Documents.
.  Participations. 
Permitted Participants; Effect
Participants
 
(b)        .  Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Credit Extension or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest which would require consent of all of the affected Lenders pursuant to the terms of Section 8.02 or of any other Loan Document.
Voting Rights
 
(c)        .  The Borrower agrees that each Participant which has been identified as such to the Borrower in writing shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01 in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to
Benefit of Certain Provisions
it as a Lender under the Loan Documents; , that each Lender shall retain the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01 with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each Participant.  The Lenders agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01, agrees to share with each Lender, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to be shared in accordance with Section 11.02 as if each Participant were a Lender.  The Borrower further agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to Section 12.03, that (i) a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.05 than the Lender who sold the participating interest to such Participant would have received had it retained such interest for its own account, unless the sale of such interest to such Participant is made with the prior written consent of the Borrower, and (ii) any Participant complies with the provisions of Section 3.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender.
provided
provided
 
Section 12.03 (a) .  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time assign to one or more banks or other entities other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates ("") all or any part of its rights and obligations under the Loan Documents.  Such assignment shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit C or in such other form as may be agreed to by the parties thereto.  The consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall be required prior to an assignment becoming effective with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender, an Affiliate thereof, an Approved Fund or a Permitted Assignee; , , that, with respect to assignments after the Closing Date, (i) if a Default or an Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing, the consent of the Borrower shall not be required and (ii) such consent shall be deemed to have been given if the Borrower has not responded within five Business Days of the Borrower's receipt of a written notice requesting such consent.  Such consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  Each such assignment with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender or an Affiliate thereof shall (unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consents) be in an amount not less than the lesser of (i) $1,000,000 and in increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (with contemporaneous assignments to two or more Approved Funds being combined for the purpose of determining whether the minimum assignment requirement is met) or (ii) the remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Outstanding Credit Exposure (if the applicable Commitment has been terminated).  The amount of the assignment shall be based on the Commitment or Outstanding Credit Exposure (if the applicable Commitment has been terminated) subject to the assignment, determined as of the date of such assignment or as of the "Trade Date", if the "Trade Date" is specified in the assignment.
.  Assignments.
Permitted Assignments
Purchasers
provided
however
 
(b)        . 
Effect; Effective Date
Upon (i) delivery (via an electronic settlement system acceptable to the Administrative Agent) to and acceptance by the Administrative Agent of an assignment, together with any consents required by
12.03,
(ii) payment of a $3,500 fee to the Administrative Agent for processing such assignment and (iii) if the assignee is not a Lender, delivery to the Administrative Agent by the assignee of an Administrative Questionnaire, such assignment shall become effective on the effective date specified in such assignment.
  On and
after the effective date of such assignment, such Purchaser shall for all purposes be a Lender party to this Agreement and any other Loan Document executed by or on behalf of the Lenders and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Lender under the Loan Documents, to the same extent as if it were an original party hereto, and no further consent or action by the Borrower, the Lenders or the Administrative Agent shall be required to release the transferor Lender with respect to the percentage of the Aggregate Commitment and Outstanding Credit Exposure assigned to such Purchaser.  In the case of an assignment covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a Lender hereunder but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to, those provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents which survive payment of the Obligations and termination of the applicable agreement.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 12.03 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with Section 12.02.  Upon the consummation of any assignment to a Purchaser pursuant to this Section 12.03(b), the transferor Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall, if the transferor Lender or the Purchaser desires that its Loans be evidenced by Notes, make appropriate arrangements so that new Notes or, as appropriate, replacement Notes are issued to such transferor Lender and new Notes or, as appropriate, replacement Notes, are issued to such Purchaser, in each case in principal amounts reflecting their respective Commitments, as adjusted pursuant to such assignment.
 
(c)        .  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in New York, New York a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
 
Section 12.04The Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Purchaser or any other Person acquiring an interest in the Loan Documents by operation of law (each a "") and any prospective Transferee any and all information in such Lender's possession concerning the creditworthiness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; that each Transferee and prospective Transferee agrees to be bound by Section 9.11 of this Agreement.
.  Dissemination of Information. 
Transferee
provided
 
Section 12.05If any interest in any Loan Document is transferred to any Transferee which is not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, the transferor Lender shall cause such Transferee, concurrently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with the provisions of Section 3.05(d).
.  Tax Treatment. 
 
Section 13.01Except as otherwise permitted by Section 2.14 with respect to borrowing notices, all notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including electronic transmission, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party: (a) in the case of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, at its address or facsimile number set forth on the signature pages hereof, (b) in the case of any Lender, at its address or facsimile number set forth below its signature hereto or (c) in the case of any party, at such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of this Section 13.01.  Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile transmission, when transmitted to the facsimile number specified in this Section and confirmation of receipt is received, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, or (iii) if given by any other means, when delivered (or, in the case of electronic transmission, received or confirmed by email) at the address specified in this Section; that notices to the Administrative Agent under Article 2 shall not be effective until received. Except as set forth below, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the Borrower shall furnish the materials described in Sections 6.01(a), 6.01(b), 6.01(h) and 6.01(i) by email or by posting such materials on an internet web site made available to the Lenders or as otherwise specified to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent.
.  Giving Notice. 
provided
 
So long as Credit Suisse AG or any of its Affiliates is the Administrative Agent, materials required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 6.01(a), 6.01(b), 6.01(h) and 6.01(i) shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by fax or email to the Administrative Agent as follows: Credit Suisse, Attention of: Sean Portrait, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, Fax No. 212-322-2291, Email:  agency.loanops@credit-suisse.com.  The Borrower agrees that the Administrative Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other materials relating to the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting such materials on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the "").  The Borrower acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
Communications
Platform
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender, the Administrative Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier.  Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
 
Section 13.02The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and any Lender may each change the address for service of notice upon it by a notice in writing to the other parties hereto.
.  Change of Address. 
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.  This Agreement shall be effective when it has been executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and each party has notified the Administrative Agent by facsimile transmission or telephone that it has taken such action and the other conditions precedent in Section 4.01 have been satisfied.
 
Section 15.01THE LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK; , however, that the interpretation of the definitions of "Borrower Material Adverse Change" and "Company Material Adverse Change" for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws.
.  CHOICE OF LAW. 
provided
 
Section 15.02THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENTS AND THE BORROWER HEREBY (TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW) IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF
.  CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. 
SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.  NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.  ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING BY THE BORROWER AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL BE BROUGHT ONLY IN A COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK.
 
Section 15.03THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER.
.  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicable Margin shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Borrower Debt Ratings from time to time.  The Borrower Debt Rating in effect on any date for the purposes of this Schedule is that in effect at the close of business on such date.  If at any time there is no Borrower Debt Rating from Moody's or S&P, Level V shall apply.
 
(1)  In the event of a split rating, the applicable rating shall be deemed to be higher of the two ratings; , if the difference between the two ratings is greater than one sub-grade, the applicable rating shall be deemed to be one sub-grade below the higher of the two ratings.
provided
 
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
 
 
SCHEDULE 4.02(g)
 
1.
    
The Existing Credit Agreement in an aggregate committed amount up to $400,000,000.
 
2.
    
The Euro Facility in an aggregate committed amount up to 850,000,000.
 
3.
    
7.375% Senior Notes due 2012 issued by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $225,000,000.
 
4.
    
5.05% Senior Unsecured Debentures due 2011 issued by Aon Finance N.S. 1, ULC and guaranteed by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $375,000,000.
 
5.
    
8.205% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures Due January 2027 issued by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $686,995,000.
 
6.
    
6.25% Guaranteed Notes due July 2014 issued by Aon Financial Services Luxembourg S.A. and guaranteed by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 500,000,000.
 
7.
    
Class A1 Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2011 issued by Private Equity Partnership Structures I LLC (PEPS), in an aggregate principal amount of up to $47,000,000.
 
8.
    
Loan Agreement, dated as of June 2009, among Accuracy SAS and BNP Paribas, as lender, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 1,500,000.
 
9.
    
Credit Agreement, dated as of October 9, 2009, among Hewitt Associates L.L.C., as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as a guarantor, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, providing for a $250,000,000 revolving loan facility.
 
10.
  
Loan Agreement, dated as of August 8, 2008, among Hewitt Associates L.L.C., as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as a guarantor, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $270,000,000.
 
11.
  
Term Loan Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of March 2008, among Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited, as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as guarantor, and Barclays Bank plc, as lender, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 23,750,000.
 
12.
  
8.08% Senior Notes, Series A, Tranche 2 due March 30, 2012 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $14,000,000.
13.
  
7.90% Senior Notes, Series E, due October 15, 2010 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15,000,000.
14.
  
6.57% Series F Senior Notes due August 21, 2015 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C. and guarantied by Hewitt Associates, Inc., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $175,000,000.
 
15.
  
6.98% Series G Senior Notes due August 21, 2018 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C. and guarantied by Hewitt Associates, Inc., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $55,000,000.
 
SCHEDULE 5.21
 
As disclosed in the Borrower's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), following inquiries from regulators, Borrower commenced an internal review of its compliance with certain U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In January 2009, Aon Limited, Borrower's principal U.K. brokerage subsidiary, entered into a settlement agreement with the FSA to pay a 5.25 million fine arising from its failure to exercise reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and controls to counter the risks of bribery arising from the use of overseas firms and individuals who helped it win business. The SEC and the Department of Justice ("DOJ") continue to investigate these matters. Borrower is fully cooperating with these investigations and has agreed with the U.S. agencies to toll any applicable statute of limitations pending completion of the investigations. Based on current information, Borrower is unable to predict at this time when the SEC and DOJ matters will be concluded, or what regulatory or other outcomes may result.
 
Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay to the order of                             (the "") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Loans made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), in immediately available funds at the main office of Credit Suisse AG in New York, New York, as Administrative Agent, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof at the rates and on the dates set forth in the Agreement.  The Borrower shall pay the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans in full on the Maturity Date and shall make such mandatory payments as are required to be made under the terms of Article 2 of the Agreement.
Borrower
Lender
 
The Lender shall, and is hereby authorized to, record on the schedule attached hereto, or to otherwise record in accordance with its usual practice, the date and amount of each Loan and the date and amount of each principal payment hereunder.
 
This Note is one of the Notes issued pursuant to, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Three-Year Term Credit Agreement dated as of [        ], 2010 (which, as it may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, is herein called the ""), among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto, including the Lender, and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent, to which Agreement reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms and conditions governing this Note, including the terms and conditions under which this Note may be prepaid or its maturity date accelerated.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein are used with the meanings attributed to them in the Agreement.
Agreement
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
 
To: The Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement Described Below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Three-Year Term Credit Agreement dated as of [], 2010 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "Agreement") among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Compliance Certificate have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT:
 
1.     I am the duly elected [            ] of the Borrower;
 
2.     I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements;
 
3.     The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes a Default or Unmatured Default during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date of this Compliance Certificate, except as set forth below; and
 
4.     Schedule I attached hereto sets forth financial data and computations evidencing the Borrower's compliance with certain covenants of the Agreement, all of which data and computations are true, complete and correct.
 
Described below are the exceptions, if any, to paragraph 3 by listing, in detail, the nature of the condition or event, the period during which it has existed and the action which the Borrower has taken, is taking, or proposes to take with respect to each such condition or event:
 
The foregoing certifications, together with the computations set forth in Schedule I hereto and the financial statements delivered with this Compliance Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this day of                               , 20      .
 
 
Schedule of Compliance as of                                 , 20       with Provisions of Section 6.17 of the Agreement
 
1.
             
Section 6.17(a) - Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense
 
 
2.
             
Section 6.17(b) - Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
 
 
 
C.    Ratio of A to B to 1.0
 
D.    Permitted Ratio Less than 3.0 to 1.0 Complies / Does Not Comply
 
EXHIBIT C
 
This Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the "").  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee.  The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
 
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by Administrative Agent as contemplated below, the interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto that represents the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the respective facilities identified below (including, to the extent included in any such facilities, letters of credit and swingline loans) (the "").  Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
 
(2)           Select as applicable.
 
Effective Date:                                  , 20       [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
 
 
 
 
Consented to and Accepted:
 
CREDIT SUISSE AG
,
acting through its Cayman Islands Branch,
as Administrative Agent
 
Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of all Lenders thereunder.
 
[Consented to:]
AON CORPORATION
 
 
ANNEX 1
 
1.             .
Representations and Warranties
 
1.1           .  The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document delivered pursuant thereto, other than this Assignment (herein collectively the ""), or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
Loan Documents
 
1.2           .  The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements if any, under the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision, and (v) if it is a Non-US Lender, attached to the Assignment is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
 
2.             .  From and after the Effective Date, Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
3.             .  This Assignment shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  This Assignment may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
General Provisions
 

Exhibit 10.2
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
 
Schedules
 
This Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, dated as of August 13, 2010, is among Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation, the Lenders (as defined below), and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent.
 
A.            In connection with the Transactions (as defined below), the Borrower has requested the Lenders to make financial accommodations to it in the aggregate principal amount of $1,500,000,000; and
 
B.            The Lenders are willing to extend such financial accommodations on the terms and conditions set forth below.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements made herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
Section 1.01As used in this Agreement:
.  Definitions. 
 
"" is defined in Section 10.02(b).
Activities
 
"" means Credit Suisse AG in its capacity as contractual representative of the Lenders pursuant to Article 10, and not in its individual capacity as a Lender, and any successor Administrative Agent appointed pursuant to Article 10.
Administrative Agent
 
"" shall mean an administrative questionnaire in a form provided by the Administrative Agent which shall include, without limitation, a designation by the assignee of one or more credit contacts to whom all syndicate-level information (which may contain material non-public information about the Borrower, the Company or their respective Subsidiaries, related parties or securities) will be made available, who will comply with Section 9.11 of this Agreement and who may receive such information in accordance with the assignee's compliance procedures and applicable laws, including federal and state securities laws.
Administrative Questionnaire
 
"" means a borrowing of Loans, (a) advanced by the Lenders on the same Borrowing Date, or (b) converted or continued by the Lenders on the same date of conversion or continuation, consisting, in either case, of the aggregate amount of the several Loans of the same Type and, in the case of Eurodollar Loans, for the same Interest Period.
Advance
 
"" is defined in Section 2.20.
Affected Lender
 
"" of any Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person.  A Person shall be deemed to control another Person if the controlling Person owns 10% or more of any class of voting securities (or other ownership interests) of the controlled Person or possesses, directly or indirectly, the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the controlled Person, whether through ownership of stock, by contract or otherwise.
Affiliate
 
"" means the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, the Syndication Agent, the Co-Documentation Agents and each Co-Arranger and "" means all of them.
Agent
Agents
 
"" is defined in Section 10.02(b).
Agent's Group
 
"" means the aggregate of the Commitments of all the Lenders, as reduced from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.  The initial Aggregate Commitment is $1,500,000,000.
Aggregate Commitment
 
"" means, at any time, the aggregate of the Outstanding Credit Exposure of all the Lenders.
Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure
 
"" means this Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement, as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time.
Agreement
 
"" means generally accepted accounting principles as in effect from time to time, applied in a manner consistent with those used in preparing the financial statements referred to in Section 4.02(h).
Agreement Accounting Principles
 
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greatest of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day, (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1% and (c) the Eurodollar Base Rate for a one month Interest Period on such day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the immediately preceding Business Day) 1.00%; that, for the avoidance of doubt, the Eurodollar Base Rate for any day shall be based on the rate determined on such day at approximately 11 a.m. (London time) by reference to the British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rates for deposits in dollars (as set forth by any service selected by the Administrative Agent that has been nominated by the British Bankers' Association as an authorized vendor for the purpose of displaying such rates).  Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurodollar Base Rate shall be effective on the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate, the Federal Funds Effective Rate or the Eurodollar Base Rate, as the case may be.
Alternate Base Rate
plus
provided
 
"" means an Advance which bears interest determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
Alternate Base Rate Advance
 
"" means a Loan which bears interest determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
Alternate Base Rate Loan
"" means (a) with respect to Alternate Base Rate Advances, the greater of (i) 0% per annum and (ii) the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time as set forth in the Pricing Schedule minus 1.00% and (b) with respect to Eurodollar Advances, the percentage rate per annum which is applicable at such time as set forth in the Pricing Schedule.
Applicable Margin
 
"" means any Fund that is administered or managed by (a) a Lender, (b) an Affiliate of a Lender or (c) an entity or an Affiliate of an entity that administers or manages a Lender.
Approved Fund
 
"" means Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and their respective successors, in their capacity as "Joint Lead Arrangers".
Arrangers
 
"" means an article of this Agreement unless another document is specifically referenced.
Article
 
"" means any of the president, chief financial officer, treasurer or vice-president and controller of the Borrower, acting singly.
Authorized Officer
 
"" means Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation, and its successors and permitted assigns.
Borrower
 
"" means the senior unsecured long-term debt (without third party credit enhancement) rating of the Borrower as determined by a rating agency identified on the Pricing Schedule.
Borrower Debt Rating
 
"" means a date on which an Advance is made hereunder.
Borrowing Date
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(n).
Borrower Material Adverse Change
 
"" means any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that is or would reasonably be expected to be materially adverse to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, but shall not be deemed to include any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence: (i) in or affecting economic conditions (including changes in interest rates) or the financial or securities markets in the United States or elsewhere in the world, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (ii) in or affecting the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate generally (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including the industries in which the Borrower's or any of its Subsidiaries' clients or customers operate), to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate or (iii) resulting from or arising out of (A) the announcement or the existence of, or compliance with, or taking any action required by the
Borrower Material Adverse Effect
Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (B) any taking of any action at the written request of the Company (and, with respect to any material action, with the prior written consent of the Arrangers, not to be unreasonably withheld), (C) any litigation arising from allegations of a breach of fiduciary duty or other violation of applicable Law relating to the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (D) any adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification, reinterpretation or proposal, in each case after the date of the Merger Agreement, of any rule, regulation, ordinance, order, protocol or any other Law of or by any national, regional, state or local Governmental Entity, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (E) any changes in GAAP or accounting standards or interpretations thereof, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate, (F) any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or acts of war or terrorism, to the extent the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries operate or (G) any change in the share price or trading volume of the Parent Common Stock, in the Borrower's credit rating or in any analyst's recommendations, in each case in and of itself, or the Borrower's failure to meet projections or forecasts (including any analyst's projections), in and of itself (, in each case, that the event, change, effect, development, condition, circumstance or occurrence underlying such change or failure shall not be excluded, and may be taken into account, in determining whether there is or would reasonably be expected to be a Borrower Material Adverse Effect).  The capitalized terms used in this definition and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement as in effect on the date hereof.
provided
 
"" is defined in Section 2.09.
Borrowing Notice
 
"" means (a) with respect to any borrowing, payment or rate selection of Eurodollar Advances, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities, interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system and dealings in United States dollars are carried on in the London interbank market and (b) for all other purposes, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) on which banks generally are open in New York for the conduct of substantially all of their commercial lending activities and interbank wire transfers can be made on the Fedwire system.
Business Day
 
"" means each of (i) the Second Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2001, by and among Cananwill Premium Credit Trust, Cananwill Corporation, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as Administrative Agent, (ii) the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2002, by and among Cananwill Canada Limited, the Borrower and CIBC Mellon Trust Company, in its capacity as Trustee of Plaza Trust, (iii) the Amended and Restated Receivables
Cananwill Securitization
Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Cananwill Receivables Purchase Facility, L.L.C., Cananwill Europe Limited, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as administrative agent and (iv) the Receivables Facilities Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2001, by and among Abel Tasman Holdings Pty Limited, Cananwill Australia Pty Limited, Cananwill, Inc. and ABN AMRO Asset Management (Australia) Limited, in each case as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented from time to time, provided that such modification, amendment or supplement does not change the fundamental nature thereof.
 
"" of a Person means any lease of Property by such Person as lessee which would be capitalized on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capitalized Lease
 
"" of a Person means the amount of the obligations of such Person under Capitalized Leases which would be shown as a liability on a balance sheet of such Person prepared in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Capitalized Lease Obligations
 
"" is defined in Section 3.02.
Change
 
"" means (a) the acquisition by any Person, or two or more Persons acting in concert, including without limitation any acquisition effected by means of any transaction contemplated by Section 6.11, of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 30% or more of the outstanding shares of voting stock of the Borrower, or (b) during any period of 25 consecutive calendar months, commencing on the date of this Agreement, the ceasing of those individuals (the "") who (i) were directors of the Borrower on the first day of each such period or (ii) subsequently became directors of the Borrower and whose initial election or initial nomination for election subsequent to that date was approved by a majority of the Continuing Directors then on the board of directors of the Borrower, to constitute a majority of the board of directors of the Borrower.
Change in Control
Continuing Directors
 
"" shall mean the date on which the Merger is consummated and the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02 have been satisfied or waived.
Closing Date
 
"" means the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 5.01(a), 5.02, 5.03 (other than the first sentence thereof), 5.05, 5.11, 5.12, 5.18(a), 5.19 and 5.20.
Closing Date Specified Representations
 
"" means that Co-Arranger Commitment Letter dated as of July 21, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank AG New York Branch, and the Royal Bank of Scotland plc to the Borrower.
Co-Arranger Commitment Letter
"" means Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or, in each case, their respective successors), in their collective capacity as "Co-Arrangers".
Co-Arrangers
 
"" means Bank of America, N.A., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and RBS Securities Inc. (or, in each case, their respective Affiliates and successors), in their collective capacity as "Co-Documentation Agents".
Co-Documentation Agents
 
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, reformed or otherwise modified from time to time.
Code
 
"" means, for each Lender, the obligation of such Lender to make Loans to the Borrower in an aggregate outstanding amount not exceeding the amount set forth opposite its name on Schedule 1.01 hereto,  as it may be modified as a result of any assignment that has become effective pursuant to Section 12.03(b) or as otherwise modified from time to time pursuant to the terms hereof.
Commitment
 
"" is defined in Section 2.05(a).
Commitment Fee
 
"" means that Commitment Letter dated as of July 11, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. to the Borrower.
Commitment Letter
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Communications
 
"" means Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(o).
Company Material Adverse Change
 
"" means any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that is or would be reasonably expected to be materially adverse to the business, assets, liabilities, condition (financial or otherwise) or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, but shall not be deemed to include any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence: (i) in or affecting economic conditions (including changes in interest rates) or the financial or securities markets in the United States or elsewhere in the world, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, (ii) in or affecting the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate generally (but, for the avoidance of doubt, not including the industries in which the Company's or any of its Subsidiaries' clients or customers operate), to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate or (iii) resulting from or arising out of (A) the announcement or the existence of, or compliance with, or taking any action required by the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (B) any taking of
Company Material Adverse Effect
any action at the written request of the Borrower, Merger Sub or Merger LLC (and, with respect to any material action, with the prior written consent of the Arrangers, not to be unreasonably withheld), (C) any litigation arising from allegations of a breach of fiduciary duty or other violation of applicable law relating to the Merger Agreement or the Transactions (as defined in the Merger Agreement), (D) any adoption, implementation, promulgation, repeal, modification, reinterpretation or proposal, in each case after the date of the Merger Agreement, of any rule, regulation, ordinance, order, protocol or any other Law of or by any national, regional, state or local Governmental Entity, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, (E) any changes in GAAP or accounting standards or interpretations thereof, to the extent the Company or its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company and its Subsidiaries operate, (F) any outbreak or escalation of hostilities or acts of war or terrorism, to the extent the Company and its Subsidiaries are not adversely affected in a disproportionate manner relative to other participants in the industries in which the Company or its Subsidiaries operate, or (G) any change in the share price or trading volume of the shares of Company Common Stock, in the Company's credit rating or in any analyst's recommendations, in each case in and of itself, or the failure of the Company to meet projections or forecasts (including any analyst's projections), in and of itself (, in each case, that the event, change, effect, development, condition, circumstance or occurrence underlying such change or failure shall not be excluded, and may be taken into account, in determining whether there is or would reasonably be expected to be a Company Material Adverse Effect).  The capitalized terms used in this definition and not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in the Merger Agreement as in effect on the date hereof.
provided
 
"" is defined in Section 7.01(h).
Condemnation
 
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum of the Borrower dated June 2010.
Confidential Information Memorandum
 
"" or "", when used in connection with any calculation, means a calculation to be determined on a consolidated basis for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (or, when used with respect to any other Person, such Person and its Subsidiaries) in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
Consolidated
consolidated
 
"" means, for any Measurement Period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, (a) to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, (ii) expense for taxes paid or accrued, (iii) depreciation, (iv) amortization, (v) extraordinary losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business, (vi) the Transaction Costs and (vii) non recurring cash charges incurred for such period in connection with the Merger in an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate during the term of this Agreement (b) to the extent included in Consolidated Net Income, extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis;
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
minus
provided
that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, no amounts shall be added pursuant to clauses (i) through (v) for any losses, costs, expenses or other charges resulting from the settlement of any Disclosed Claims or any payments in respect of any judgments or other orders thereon or any restructuring or other charges in connection therewith or relating thereto.
 
"" means, without duplication, (i) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of the types described in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of the definition of Indebtedness (excluding, for purposes of clauses (b) and (c), any leases that constitute operating leases in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles), and (ii) all Indebtedness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries of the type described in clause (j) of the definition of Indebtedness with respect to Indebtedness of the types described in clause (i) above, calculated on a Consolidated basis.
Consolidated Funded Debt
 
"" means, for any Measurement Period, the interest expense of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
 
"" means, as of the last day of any Measurement Period, the ratio of Consolidated Funded Debt at such date to Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA for such Measurement Period; that in the event that the Senior Notes are issued prior to the Closing Date and the proceeds thereof are held in escrow pursuant to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent, the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes for the purpose of determining the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time prior to the Closing Date shall be deemed to be the excess (if any) of the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes over the escrowed proceeds thereof.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
provided
 
"" means, with reference to any period, the net income (or loss) of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries calculated on a consolidated basis for such period.
Consolidated Net Income
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the consolidated common stockholders' equity of the Borrower and its consolidated Subsidiaries determined in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
Consolidated Net Worth
 
"" of a Person means any agreement, undertaking or arrangement by which such Person assumes, guarantees, endorses, contingently agrees to purchase or provide funds for the payment of, or otherwise becomes or is contingently liable upon, the obligation or liability of any other Person, or agrees to maintain the net worth or working capital or other financial condition of any other Person, or otherwise assures any creditor of such other Person against loss, including, without limitation, any comfort letter, operating agreement or take or pay contract or application for a Letter of Credit.
Contingent Obligation
 
"" means the agreements and instruments set forth on Schedule 4.02(g) as the same may be supplemented, modified, amended, refinanced or replaced from time to time; that in each case the aggregate outstanding principal amount thereof (or credit committed thereunder) is not increased without the consent of the Required Lenders except as contemplated by Section 6.19(b).
Continuing Debt Instruments
provided
 
"" means all members of a controlled group of corporations or other business entities and all trades or businesses (whether or not incorporated) under common control which, together with the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, are treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
Controlled Group
 
"" is defined in Section 2.10.
Conversion/Continuation Notice
 
"" means the making of an Advance hereunder.
Credit Extension
 
"" means the Borrowing Date for an Advance.
Credit Extension Date
 
"" means an event described in Article 7.
Default
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 2.20.
Defaulting Lender
 
"" means any litigation, proceeding or investigation disclosed in (a) the Borrower's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (b) the Borrower's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Disclosed Claims
 
"" or "" means the sale, transfer or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction), in each case for consideration in any single transaction or series of related transactions in excess of $25,000,000 (as determined reasonably in good faith by the Borrower), by any Person of any Property (including any equity interests owned by such Person, or any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith) of such Person (or the granting of any option or other right to do any of the foregoing).
Disposition
Dispose
 
"" is defined in Section 2.05(c).
Duration Fee
 
"" means the date this Agreement becomes effective in accordance with Section 4.01.
Effective Date
 
"" means the representations and warranties set forth in Sections 5.01(a), 5.02, 5.03 (other than the first sentence thereof and clause (i)(B) of the second sentence thereof), 5.12 and 5.18.
Effective Date Specified Representations
 
"" is defined in Section 5.15.
Environmental Laws
 
"" has the meaning specified in Section 9.06(b).
Environmental Liability
 
"" means shares of capital stock, partnership interests, membership interests in a limited liability company, beneficial interests in a trust or other equity ownership interests in a Person, and any warrants, options or other rights entitling the holder thereof to purchase or acquire such equity interest.
Equity Interests
"" means any issuance by the Borrower of any Equity Interest other than pursuant to any director or employee stock ownership plan or any other employee compensation plan.
Equity Issuance
 
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any rule or regulation issued thereunder.
ERISA
 
"" means the 650,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of February 7, 2005 by and among the Borrower, the Subsidiaries of the Borrower party thereto, Citibank International plc, as agent, and the financial institutions parties thereto as lenders, as the same may be supplemented, modified and amended from time to time, that, in each case, the principal amount of the credit committed thereunder is not increased without the consent of the Required Lenders except as contemplated by Section 6.19(b).  References to any specific section of the Euro Facility shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding provision in the Euro Facility as modified, amended, renewed or refinanced from time to time.
Euro Facility
provided
 
"" means an Advance which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.12, bears interest at the applicable Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Advance
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the Interest Period applicable to such Eurodollar Advance, the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars appearing on Reuters LIBOR01 Page as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, provided that, (i) if Reuters LIBOR01 Page is not available to the Administrative Agent for any reason, the applicable Eurodollar Base Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the applicable British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate for deposits in U.S. dollars as reported by any other generally recognized financial information service as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period, and (ii) if no such British Bankers' Association Interest Settlement Rate is available to the Administrative Agent, the applicable Eurodollar Base Rate for the relevant Interest Period shall instead be the rate determined by the Administrative Agent to be the rate at which the Administrative Agent offers to place deposits in U.S. dollars with first class banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two (2) Business Days prior to the first day of such Interest Period, in the approximate amount of the Administrative Agent's relevant Eurodollar Loan and having a maturity equal to such Interest Period.
Eurodollar Base Rate
 
"" means a Loan which, except as otherwise provided in Section 2.12, bears interest at the applicable Eurodollar Rate.
Eurodollar Loan
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance for the relevant Interest Period, the sum of (a) the quotient of (i) the Eurodollar Base Rate applicable to such Interest Period, divided by (ii) one the Reserve Requirement (expressed as a decimal) applicable to such Interest Period, plus (b) the Applicable Margin for Eurodollar Advances.
Eurodollar Rate
minus
"" means Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries having an outstanding principal amount not in excess of $50,000,000 in the aggregate for all such Indebtedness.
Excluded Indebtedness
 
"" means, in the case of each Lender and the Administrative Agent, taxes imposed on its overall net income, and franchise taxes imposed on it, by (i) the jurisdiction under the laws of which such Lender or the Administrative Agent is incorporated or organized or (ii) the jurisdiction in which the Administrative Agent's or such Lender's principal executive office or such Lender's applicable Lending Installation is located.
Excluded Taxes
 
"" refers to an exhibit to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Exhibit
 
"" means the $400,000,000 Three-Year Credit Agreement dated as of December 4, 2009 among the Borrower, Citibank, N.A., as agent, and the lenders party thereto, as amended, restated, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.  References to any specific section of the Existing Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the corresponding provision in the Existing Credit Agreement as modified, amended, renewed or refinanced from time to time.
Existing Credit Agreement
 
"" means Section 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as in effect on the date hereof, and any applicable Treasury regulations or published administrative guidance promulgated thereunder.
FATCA
 
"" means, for any day, an interest rate per annum equal to the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers on such day, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the immediately preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day which is a Business Day, the average of the quotations at approximately 10:00 a.m. (New York time) on such day on such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by the Administrative Agent in its sole discretion.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
 
"" means the Fee Letter dated as of July 11, 2010 from Credit Suisse AG, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. to the Borrower.
Fee Letter
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(h).
Financial Statements
 
"" means each of the four three-month accounting periods comprising a Fiscal Year.
Fiscal Quarter
 
"" means the twelve-month accounting period ending December 31 of each year.
Fiscal Year
 
"" is defined in Section 5.21.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
"" means a Subsidiary of the Borrower which is not organized under the laws of the United States of America or any political subdivision thereof.
Foreign Subsidiary
 
"" means any Person (other than a natural person) that is (or will be) engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in commercial loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business.
Fund
 
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 430(d)(2) of the Code or Section 303(d)(2) of ERISA.
Funded Target Attainment Percentage
 
"" means any government (foreign or domestic) or any state or other political subdivision thereof or any governmental body, agency, authority, department or commission (including without limitation any taxing authority or political subdivision) or any instrumentality or officer thereof (including, without limitation, any court or tribunal and any board of insurance, insurance department or insurance commissioner) exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of or pertaining to government and any corporation, partnership or other entity directly or indirectly owned or controlled by or subject to the control of any of the foregoing.
Governmental Authority
 
"" is defined in Section 5.15.
Hazardous Materials
 
"" means any interest rate protection agreement, foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity price protection agreement or other interest or currency exchange rate or commodity price hedging arrangement and all other similar agreements or arrangements designed to alter the risks of any Person arising from fluctuations in interest rates, currency values or commodity prices.
Hedging Agreement
 
"" means one or more Subsidiaries of the Borrower, the Consolidated total assets, Consolidated revenues and Consolidated net operating income of which, in the aggregate, do not exceed three percent (3%) of the Consolidated total assets, Consolidated revenues and Consolidated net operating income, respectively, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, in each case determined as of the end, or for, as the case may be, the period of four Fiscal Quarters most recently ended for which financial statements have been or are required to have been delivered pursuant to Section 6.01(a) or Section 6.01(b).
Immaterial Subsidiaries
 
"" of a Person means, without duplication, (a) such Person's obligations for borrowed money, (b) obligations of such Person representing the deferred purchase price of Property or services (other than accounts payable arising in the ordinary course of such Person's business payable on terms customary in the trade), (c) such Person's obligations created or arising under any conditional sale or other title retention agreement with respect to property acquired by such Person (even though the rights and remedies of the seller or lender under such agreement in the event of default are limited to repossession or sale of such property), (d) such Person's obligations which are evidenced by bonds, notes, debentures, acceptances, or similar instruments, (e) Capitalized Lease Obligations of such Person, (f) Contingent Obligations of such Person, (g) obligations, contingent or otherwise, for which such Person is obligated pursuant to
Indebtedness
or in respect of Letters of Credit or bankers' acceptances, (h) such Person's obligations under Hedging Agreements to the extent required to be reflected on a balance sheet of such Person, (i) repurchase obligations or liabilities of such Person with respect to accounts or notes receivable sold by such Person, and (j) all Indebtedness and other obligations referred to in clauses (a) through (i) above secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness or other obligations has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property (including, without limitation, accounts and contract rights) owned by such Person or payable out of the proceeds or production from property of such Person, even though such Person has not assumed or become liable for the payment of such Indebtedness or other obligations.
 
"" is defined in Section 9.11.
Information
 
"" means, with respect to a Eurodollar Advance, a period of one, two, three or six months commencing on a Business Day selected by the Borrower pursuant to this Agreement.  An Interest Period of one, two, three or six months shall end on (but exclude) the day which corresponds numerically to such date one, two, three or six months thereafter; , , that if there is no such numerically corresponding day in such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month, such Interest Period shall end on the last Business Day of such next, second, third or sixth succeeding month.  If an Interest Period would otherwise end on a day which is not a Business Day, such Interest Period shall end on the next succeeding Business Day; , , that if said next succeeding Business Day falls in a new calendar month, such Interest Period shall end on the immediately preceding Business Day.
Interest Period
provided
however
provided
however
 
"" means the actual knowledge of any fact, circumstance or condition of those officers of the Borrower, Merger Sub and Merger LLC set forth in Section 9.03 of the Parent Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement).
Knowledge
 
"" means
Law
any Federal, state, local, foreign, international or multinational treaty, constitution, statute or other law, ordinance, rule or regulation.
 
"" is defined in Section 10.06.
Lender Appointment Period
 
"" means the lending institutions listed on the signature pages of this Agreement and their respective successors and assigns.
Lenders
 
"" means, with respect to a Lender or the Administrative Agent, the office or branch of such Lender or the Administrative Agent listed on the signature pages hereof, on a Schedule or otherwise selected by such Lender or the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.18.
Lending Installation
 
"" of a Person means a letter of credit or similar instrument which is issued upon the application of such Person or upon which such Person is an account party or for which such Person is in any way liable.
Letter of Credit
"" means any security interest, lien (statutory or other), mortgage, pledge, hypothecation, assignment, deposit arrangement, encumbrance or preference, priority or other security agreement or preferential arrangement of any kind or nature whatsoever (including, without limitation, the interest of a vendor or lessor under any conditional sale, Capitalized Lease or other title retention agreement).
Lien
 
"" means, with respect to a Lender, such Lender's loan made pursuant to Article 2 (or any conversion or continuation thereof).
Loan
 
"" means this Agreement and any Notes issued pursuant to Section 2.14 and the other documents and agreements contemplated hereby and executed by the Borrower in favor of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
Loan Documents
 
"" has the meaning assigned to that term under Regulation U.
Margin Stock
 
"" means a Borrower Material Adverse Change or a Company Material Adverse Change.
Material Adverse Change
 
"" means a material adverse effect on (a) the business, Property, condition (financial or otherwise), performance, results of operations, or prospects of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole, (b) the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations under the Loan Documents, or (c) the validity or enforceability of any of the Loan Documents or the rights or remedies of the Administrative Agent or the Lenders thereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
 
"" means the date that is 364 days from the Closing Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next preceding Business Day).
Maturity Date
 
"" means, at any date of determination, the most recently completed four consecutive Fiscal Quarters of the Borrower ending on or prior to such date.
Measurement Period
 
"" means the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger
 
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 11, 2010 among the Borrower, Merger LLC, Merger Sub and the Company.
Merger Agreement
 
"" means an aggregate amount of approximately $2,450,000,000 in cash to be paid to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Cash Consideration
 
"" means the Merger Cash Consideration and the Merger Equity Consideration.
Merger Consideration
 
"" means the shares of common stock of the Borrower to be delivered to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Equity Consideration
"" means Alps Merger LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger LLC
 
"" means Alps Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger Sub
 
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor thereto.
Moody's
 
"" means a Plan that is a "multiemployer plan" as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA.
Multiemployer Plan
 
"" means (a) in connection with any Specified Asset Sale or any Property Loss Event, the proceeds thereof received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary in the form of cash and cash equivalents (including any such proceeds received by way of deferred payment of principal pursuant to a note or installment receivable or purchase price adjustment receivable or otherwise, but only as and when received), net of attorneys' fees, accountants' fees, investment banking fees, reserves, escrows, amounts required to be applied to the repayment of Indebtedness secured by a Lien expressly permitted hereunder on any asset that is the subject of such Specified Asset Sale or Property Loss Event and other customary fees and expenses actually incurred in connection therewith and net of taxes (including taxes arising out of the distribution of such cash proceeds by a Foreign Subsidiary directly to the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is not a Foreign Subsidiary) paid or reasonably estimated to be payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any tax sharing arrangements); that in the case of the proceeds of a Property Loss Event only, if (x) the Borrower shall deliver a certificate of an Authorized Officer to the Administrative Agent prior to receipt thereof setting forth the Borrower's intent to reinvest such proceeds in productive assets of a kind then used or usable in the business of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries within 180 days of receipt of such proceeds and (y) no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and shall be continuing at the time of such certificate or at the proposed time of the application of such proceeds, such proceeds shall not constitute Net Cash Proceeds except to the extent not so used prior to the end of such 180-day period (or, if later, 180 days after the date the Borrower or a Subsidiary has entered into a binding commitment to reinvest such proceeds (if such commitment was entered into prior to the expiration of such initial 180-day period)), at which time such proceeds shall be deemed to be Net Cash Proceeds and that no proceeds of any Specified Asset Sale shall constitute Net Cash Proceeds except to the extent in excess of $10,000,000 for such Specified Asset Sale and $250,000,000 in the aggregate for all such Specified Asset Sales and (b) in connection with any Equity Issuance or any Specified Debt Incurrence, the cash proceeds received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary from such issuance or incurrence, net of attorneys' fees, investment banking fees, accountants' fees, underwriting discounts and commissions, escrows and other customary fees and expenses actually incurred in connection therewith and net of taxes (including taxes arising out of the distribution of such cash proceeds by a Foreign Subsidiary directly to the Borrower or any Subsidiary that is not a Foreign Subsidiary) paid or reasonably estimated to be payable as a result thereof (after taking into account any tax sharing arrangements).
s
Net Cash Proceed
provided
provided further
"" is defined in Section 3.05(d).
Non-U.S. Lender
 
"" is defined in Section 2.14.
Note
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Notice
 
"" means all unpaid principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans, all accrued and unpaid fees and all expenses, reimbursements, indemnities and other obligations of the Borrower to the Lenders or to any Lender, the Administrative Agent or any indemnified party arising under the Loan Documents.
Obligations
 
"" is defined in Section 3.05(b).
Other Taxes
 
"" means, as to any Lender at any time, the aggregate principal amount of its Loans outstanding at such time.
Outstanding Credit Exposure
 
"" is defined in Section 12.02(a).
Participants
 
"" means the last Business Day of each March, June, September and December.
Payment Date
 
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, or any successor thereto.
PBGC
 
"" means each Person identified in writing by the Borrower to the Arrangers on the date of execution of the Commitment Letter.
Permitted Assignee
 
"" means any natural person, corporation, firm, joint venture, partnership, association, enterprise, limited liability company, trust or other entity or organization, or any government or political subdivision or any agency, department or instrumentality thereof.
Person
 
"" means an "employee pension benefit plan," as defined in Section 3(2) of ERISA, which is covered by Title IV of ERISA or subject to the minimum funding standards under Section 412 of the Code, as to which the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group may have any liability.
Plan
 
"" is defined in Section 13.01.
Platform
 
"" means any Specified Asset Sale, any Property Loss Event, any Specified Debt Incurrence and any Equity Issuance.
Prepayment Event
 
"" means the Schedule attached hereto identified as such.
Pricing Schedule
 
"" means mean the rate of interest per annum announced from time to time by Credit Suisse AG (or any successor to Credit Suisse AG in its capacity as Administrative Agent) as its prime commercial lending rate in effect at its principal office in New York City.  The
Prime Rate
Prime Rate is a reference rate and does not necessarily represent the lowest or best rate actually charged to any customer.
 
"" is defined in Section 4.02(i).
Pro Forma Financials
 
"" of a Person means any and all property, whether real, personal, tangible, intangible, or mixed, of such Person, or other assets owned, leased or operated by such Person.
Property
 
"" means any loss of or damage to property or assets of, or any taking of the property or assets of, the Borrower or its Subsidiaries, for which such Person receives insurance proceeds (other than business interruption insurance) or other compensation.
Property Loss Event
 
"" means, when used with respect to a Lender, and any described aggregate or total amount, an amount equal to such Lender's pro rata share or portion based on its percentage of the Aggregate Commitment or if the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, its percentage of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.
pro rata
 
"" is defined in Section 12.03(a).
Purchasers
 
"" means Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor thereto or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to reserve requirements applicable to depositary institutions.
Regulation D
 
"" means Regulation U of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System as from time to time in effect and any successor or other regulation or official interpretation of said Board of Governors relating to the extension of credit by banks and certain other Persons for the purpose of purchasing or carrying margin stocks applicable to member banks of the Federal Reserve System and certain other Persons.
Regulation U
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective partners, directors, trustees, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
 
"" is defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 39601 et seq.  "" shall have a corresponding meaning.
Release
Released
 
"" is defined in Section 2.02.
Repayment Date
 
"" means a reportable event as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA and the regulations issued under such section, with respect to a Plan, excluding, however, such events as to which the PBGC has by regulation waived the requirement of Section 4043(a) of ERISA that it be notified within thirty (30) days of the occurrence of such event; , that a failure to meet the minimum funding standard of Section 412 or 430 of the Code or Section 302 of
Reportable Event
provided
ERISA shall be a Reportable Event regardless of the issuance of any such waiver of the notice requirement in accordance with either Section 4043(a) of ERISA or Section 412(c) of the Code.
 
"" means Lenders in the aggregate having more than 50% of the Aggregate Commitment or, if the Aggregate Commitment has been terminated, Lenders in the aggregate holding more than 50% of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure; that if any Lender shall be a Defaulting Lender at such time, there shall be excluded from the determination of Required Lenders at such time (a) the unused Commitment of such Defaulting Lender at such time and (b) Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Lender at such time.
Required Lenders
provided
 
"" means, with respect to an Interest Period, the maximum aggregate reserve requirement (including all basic, supplemental, marginal and other reserves) which is imposed under Regulation D on Eurocurrency liabilities.
Reserve Requirement
 
"" is defined in Section 3.02.
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
 
"" means Standard and Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor thereto.
S&P
 
"" refers to a specific schedule to this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Schedule
 
"" means the up to $1,500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes of the Borrower issued in a public offering or in a Rule 144A or other private placement.
Senior Notes
 
"" means a numbered section of this Agreement, unless another document is specifically referenced.
Section
 
"" means a Plan other than a Multiemployer Plan.
Single Employer Plan
 
"" and "" mean, with respect to the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, on any date of determination, that on such date (a) the Fair Value (as defined below) of the property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, is greater than the total amount of liabilities, including contingent liabilities, of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, (b) the Present Fair Salable Value (as defined below) of the assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, is not less than the amount that will be required to pay the probable liability of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on their debts as they become absolute and matured, (c) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries do not intend to, and do not believe that they will, incur debts or liabilities beyond their ability to pay such debts and liabilities as they mature, (d) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are not engaged in business or a transaction, and are not about to engage in business or a transaction, for which the Borrower's and its Subsidiaries' property, on a consolidated basis, would constitute unreasonably small capital after giving due consideration to the prevailing practice in the industry in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the Company and its Subsidiaries are
Solvent
Solvency
engaged in on the date hereof, and (e) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, are able to pay their debts and liabilities, contingent obligations and other commitments as they mature in the ordinary course of business.  The amount of contingent liabilities at any time shall be computed as the amount that, in the light of all the facts and circumstances existing at such time, represents the amount that can reasonably be expected to become an actual or matured liability.  For the purpose hereof, "" means  the amount at which the aggregate assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries would change hands between a willing buyer and a willing seller within a commercially reasonable period of time, each having reasonable knowledge of the relevant facts, neither being under any compulsion to act, with equity to both.  "" means the amount that may be realized if the aggregate assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are sold with reasonable promptness in an arm's length transaction under present conditions for the sale of assets of comparable business enterprises.
Fair Value
Present Fair Salable Value
 
"" means, any Specified Disposition by the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than (a) Specified Dispositions as defined in clause (a) of the definition thereof in the ordinary course of business, (b) Specified Dispositions to the Borrower or any Subsidiary, (c) Specified Dispositions permitted under Section 6.16(a) through Section 6.16(d) and (d) Specified Dispositions of premium finance receivables pursuant to any Cananwill Securitization.
Specified Asset Sale
 
"" means any incurrence of Indebtedness of the type set forth in clause (a) or (d) of the definition thereof (including, without limitation, the Senior Notes) by the Borrower or any Subsidiary other than (i) any Indebtedness owed to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, (ii) amounts incurred or outstanding under the Continuing Debt Instruments in the amounts specified in Section 4.02(g), (iii) Indebtedness under the Term Loan Credit Agreement and (iv) Excluded Indebtedness.
Specified Debt Incurrence
 
"" means, with respect to any Person, (a) the sale, transfer or other disposition (including any sale and leaseback transaction by such Person) of any Property (including any equity interests owned by such Person, or any notes or accounts receivable or any rights and claims associated therewith) of such Person (or the granting of any option or other right to do any of the foregoing) and (b) any issuance of Equity Interests by the Subsidiary of such Person.
Specified Disposition
 
"" the merger of the surviving corporation in the Merger with and into Merger LLC, with Merger LLC surviving as a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Borrower.
Subsequent Merger
 
"" of a Person means (a) any corporation more than 50% of the outstanding securities having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or by one or more of its Subsidiaries or by such Person and one or more of its Subsidiaries, or (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, limited liability company or similar business organization more than 50% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.  Unless otherwise expressly provided, all references herein to a "" shall mean a Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Subsidiary
Subsidiary
"" means, with respect to the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, Property which (a) represents more than 10% of the consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as would be shown in the consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the quarter next preceding the date on which such determination is made, or (b) is responsible for more than 10% of the consolidated net sales or of the consolidated net income of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries for the 12-month period ending as of the end of the quarter next preceding the date of determination.
Substantial Portion
 
"" means Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc. and its successors, in its capacity as "Syndication Agent".
Syndication Agent
 
"" means any and all present or future taxes, duties, levies, imposts, deductions, charges or withholdings, and any and all liabilities with respect to the foregoing, but excluding Excluded Taxes and Other Taxes.
Taxes
 
"" means the Three-Year Term Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof among Aon Corporation, as borrower, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, and the lenders and agents party thereto as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time to the extent permitted hereunder.
Term Credit Agreement
 
"" means the "Loan Documents" as defined in the Term Credit Agreement.
Term Loan Documents
 
"" means the "Loans" as defined in the Term Credit Agreement.
Term Loans
 
"" means, with respect to any Plan which is subject to Title IV of ERISA, (a) a Reportable Event, (b) the withdrawal of the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group from such Plan during a plan year in which the Borrower or any other member of the Controlled Group was a "substantial employer" as defined in Section 4001(a)(2) of ERISA or was deemed such under Section 4068(f) of ERISA, the conditions for imposition of a lien under Section 303(d) of ERISA shall have been met, (d) a determination that any Plan is in "at risk" status (within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA), (e) the termination of such Plan, the filing of a notice of intent to terminate such Plan or the treatment of an amendment of such Plan as a termination under Section 4041 of ERISA, (f) the institution by the PBGC of proceedings to terminate such Plan or (g) any event or condition which might constitute grounds under Section 4042 of ERISA for the termination of, or appointment of a trustee to administer, such Plan.
Termination Event
 
"" means (i) the Merger and the Subsequent Merger, including the payment of the Merger Consideration, (ii) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement, including the funding of the Loans hereunder and the application of the proceeds thereof, (iii) the execution, delivery and performance of the Term Credit Agreement, (iv) the issuance of the Senior Notes, and, to the extent the Borrower is unable to issue the Senior Notes on or prior to the date the Merger is consummated, the funding of the Term Loans and the application of the proceeds thereof and (v) payment of the Transaction Costs.
Transactions
 
"" means fees and expenses in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in connection with the Transactions.
Transactions Costs
 
"" is defined in Section 12.04.
Transferee
 
"" means, with respect to any Advance, its nature as an Alternate Base Rate Advance or a Eurodollar Advance.
Type
 
"" means an event which but for the lapse of time or the giving of notice, or both, would constitute a Default.
Unmatured Default
 
"" shall mean The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Title III of Pub.  L.  No.  107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)).
USA PATRIOT Act
 
"" of a Person means (a) any Subsidiary all of the outstanding voting securities of which shall at the time be owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by such Person or one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or by such Person and one or more Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of such Person, or (b) any partnership, association, joint venture, limited liability company or similar business organization 100% of the ownership interests having ordinary voting power of which shall at the time be so owned or controlled.  Unless otherwise provided, all references herein to a "" shall mean a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower.
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
Wholly Owned Subsidiary
 
The foregoing definitions shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms of the defined terms.  In computations of periods of time from a specified date to a later specified date, the word "" means "" and the words "" and "" each mean "".
from
from and including
to
until
to but excluding
 
Section 2.01Each Lender severally agrees, on the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, to make Loans to the Borrower on the Closing Date in a principal amount not to exceed the amount of its Commitment.  Amounts borrowed under this Section 2.01 and repaid or prepaid may not be reborrowed.
.  Commitment. 
 
Section 2.02.  .  All unpaid Obligations shall be paid in full by the Borrower on the Maturity Date.
Required Payments
 
Section 2.03.  .  Each Advance hereunder shall consist of Loans made from the several Lenders ratably in proportion to the ratio that their respective Commitments bear to the Aggregate Commitment.
Ratable Loans
Section 2.04.  The Advances may be Alternate Base Rate Advances or Eurodollar Advances, or a combination thereof, selected by the Borrower in accordance with Section 2.09 and Section 2.10.
Types of Advances. 
 
Section 2.05. 
Undrawn Commitment Fee / Duration Fees / Termination or Reductions of Commitments.
 
(a)        The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a commitment fee (the ""), which shall accrue at 0.25% per annum on the daily amount of the unused Commitment of such Lender during the period from and including August 25, 2010 to but excluding the earlier to occur of (i) the termination of the Commitments hereunder and (ii) the Closing Date and shall be payable on such earlier date.
Commitment Fee
 
(b)        All unused Commitments after giving effect to the Advances on the Closing Date shall automatically terminate.  In addition, the Commitments shall automatically terminate in the event that the Closing Date does not occur on or before the earlier of (i) 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on March 31, 2011 or (ii) the date on which the Merger Agreement terminates or either party thereto publicly announces its intention not to proceed with the Acquisition.
 
(c)        The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent ratably for the account of each Lender a duration fee (the "") in an amount equal to (i) 0.75% of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding on the date which is 90 days after the Closing Date, due and payable on such 90th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day); (ii) 1.25% of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding on the date which is 180 days after the Closing Date, due and payable on such 180th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day); and (iii) 1.75% of the aggregate principal amount of the Loans outstanding on the date which is 270 days after the Closing Date, due and payable on such 270th day (or if such day is not a Business Day, the next Business Day).
Duration Fee
 
(d)        At any time prior to the Closing Date, the Borrower may permanently reduce the Aggregate Commitment in whole, or in part ratably among the Lenders in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, upon at least three (3) Business Days' written notice to the Administrative Agent, which notice shall specify the amount of any such reduction.
 
(e)        Upon the occurrence of any Prepayment Event prior to the Closing Date, the Commitments shall automatically be reduced in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of the Net Cash Proceeds of such Prepayment Event.  The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of the occurrence of any Prepayment Event at least two Business Days prior to the consummation of such Prepayment Event and such notice shall be accompanied by a reasonably detailed calculation of the Net Cash Proceeds thereof.  Promptly following receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the occurrence of the Prepayment Event and the Net Cash Proceeds thereof.  Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent.  Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
(f)         The Borrower agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent and the other parties thereto the fees payable in the amounts and at the times set forth in the Fee Letter, the Commitment Letter and the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter, except that any "ticking fee" payable pursuant to the Fee Letter or the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter with respect to the Commitments shall, from the Effective Date, be replaced with the Commitment Fee.
 
Section 2.06.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall be in the minimum amount of $10,000,000 (and in multiples of $1,000,000 if in excess thereof), that in no event shall more than six (6) Eurodollar Advances be permitted to be outstanding at any time.
Minimum Amount of Each Advance. 
provided, however,
 
Section 2.07.  The Borrower may from time to time pay, without penalty or premium, all outstanding Alternate Base Rate Advances, or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, any portion of the outstanding Alternate Base Rate Advances upon notice to the Administrative Agent by 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Business Day of the proposed prepayment.  The Borrower may from time to time pay, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04 but without penalty or premium, all outstanding Eurodollar Advances, or, in a minimum aggregate amount of $10,000,000 or any integral multiple of $1,000,000 in excess thereof, any portion of an outstanding Eurodollar Advance, upon three (3) Business Days' prior notice to the Administrative Agent.
Optional Principal Payments. 
 
Section 2.08.
.  Mandatory Prepayments
 
(a)        Within 5 Business Days of the receipt of any Net Cash Proceeds from any Prepayment Event occurring on or after the Closing Date, the Borrower shall prepay the Loans in an aggregate amount equal to 100% of the amount of such Net Cash Proceeds.  The Borrower shall effect such prepayment within 5 Business Days of receipt of such Net Cash Proceeds.  The Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of the occurrence of any Prepayment Event at least two Business Days prior to the consummation of such Prepayment Event and such notice shall be accompanied by a reasonably detailed calculation of the Net Cash Proceeds thereof. Promptly following receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the occurrence of the Prepayment Event and the Net Cash Proceeds thereof.
 
(b)        Each prepayment of an Advance shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Advance.  Prepayments shall be accompanied by accrued interest to the extent required by Section 2.16 and compensation for break funding to the extent required by Section 3.04.
 
Section 2.09.  The Borrower shall select the Type of Advance and, in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto from time to time.  The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (a "") not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Business Day prior to the Closing Date of each Alternate Base Rate Advance and at least three (3) Business Days before the Closing Date for each Eurodollar Advance, specifying:
Method of Selecting Types and Interest Periods for New Advances. 
Borrowing Notice
(a)        the Borrowing Date of such Advance, which shall be the Closing Date and a Business Day;
 
(b)        the aggregate amount of such Advance;
 
(c)        the Type of Advance selected; and
 
(d)        in the case of each Eurodollar Advance, the Interest Period applicable thereto.
 
Not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the Closing Date, each Lender shall make available its Loan or Loans, in funds immediately available in New York, to the Administrative Agent at its address specified pursuant to Article 13.  The Administrative Agent will make the funds so received from the Lenders available to the Borrower at the Administrative Agent's aforesaid address.
 
Section 2.10Each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall continue as an Alternate Base Rate Advance unless and until such Alternate Base Rate Advance is converted into a Eurodollar Advance pursuant to this Section 2.10 or is repaid in accordance with Section 2.07.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall continue as a Eurodollar Advance until the end of the then applicable Interest Period therefor, at which time such Eurodollar Advance shall be automatically converted into an Alternate Base Rate Advance unless (a) such Eurodollar Advance is or was repaid in accordance with Section 2.07 or (b) the Borrower shall have given the Administrative Agent a Conversion/Continuation Notice (as defined below) requesting that, at the end of such Interest Period, such Eurodollar Advance continue as a Eurodollar Advance for the same or another Interest Period (or, if no Interest Period is specified in such Conversion/Continuation Notice, continuation shall be for a one (1) month Interest Period).  Subject to the terms of Section 2.06, the Borrower may elect from time to time to convert all or any part of an Alternate Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance.  Subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04, the Borrower may elect from time to time to convert all or any part of a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance.  The Borrower shall give the Administrative Agent irrevocable notice (a "") of each (x) conversion of an Alternate Base Rate Advance into a Eurodollar Advance or the continuation of a Eurodollar Advance as a new Eurodollar Advance not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) at least three (3) Business Days prior to the date of the requested conversion or continuation and (y) conversion of a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance, not later than 11:00 a.m. (New York time) on the date of the requested conversion, in each case specifying:
.   Conversion and Continuation of Outstanding Advances. 
Conversion/Continuation Notice
 
(a)        the requested date of such conversion or continuation, which shall be a Business Day;
 
(b)        the aggregate amount and Type of the Advance which is to be converted or continued; and
(c)        the amount and Type(s) of Advance(s) into which such Advance is to be converted or continued and, in the case of a conversion into or continuation of a Eurodollar Advance, the duration of the Interest Period applicable thereto, which shall end on or prior to the Maturity Date.
 
Section 2.11Each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof, for each day from and including the date such Advance is made or is converted from a Eurodollar Advance into an Alternate Base Rate Advance pursuant to Section 2.10, to but excluding the date it is paid or is converted into a Eurodollar Advance pursuant to Section 2.10 hereof, at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate the Applicable Margin with respect to Alternate Base Rate Advances, in each case for such day.  Changes in the rate of interest on that portion of any Advance maintained as an Alternate Base Rate Advance will take effect simultaneously with each change in the Alternate Base Rate.  Each Eurodollar Advance shall bear interest on the outstanding principal amount thereof from and including the first day of the Interest Period applicable thereto to (but not including) the last day of such Interest Period at the Eurodollar Rate determined by the Administrative Agent as applicable to such Eurodollar Advance based upon the Borrower's selections under Section 2.09 and Section 2.10 and otherwise in accordance with the terms hereof.  No Interest Period may end after the Maturity Date.
.  Interest Rate, Etc. 
plus
 
Section 2.12Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in Section 2.09 or Section 2.10, no Advance may be made as, converted into or continued as a Eurodollar Advance (except with the consent of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders) when any Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.  During the continuance of a Default the Required Lenders may, at their option, by notice to the Borrower (which notice may be revoked at the option of the Required Lenders notwithstanding any provision of Section 8.02 requiring unanimous consent of the Lenders to changes in interest rates), declare that (a) each Eurodollar Advance shall bear interest for the remainder of the applicable Interest Period at the Eurodollar Rate otherwise applicable to such Interest Period plus 2% per annum and (b) each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Alternate Base Rate in effect from time to time plus the Applicable Margin for Alternate Base Rate Advances plus 2% per annum that, during the continuance of a Default under Section 7.01(f) or Section 7.01(g), the interest rates set forth in clauses (a) and (b) above shall be applicable to all Advances without any election or action on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.
.  Rates Applicable After Default. 
provided
 
Section 2.13All payments of the Obligations hereunder shall be made, without setoff, deduction or counterclaim, in immediately available funds to the Administrative Agent at the Administrative Agent's address specified pursuant to Article 13, or at any other Lending Installation of the Administrative Agent specified in writing by the Administrative Agent to the Borrower, by noon (New York time) on the date when due and shall be applied ratably by the Administrative Agent among the Lenders entitled to such payments.  Each payment delivered to the Administrative Agent for the account of any Lender shall be delivered promptly by the Administrative Agent to such Lender in the same type of funds that
.  Method of Payment. 
the Administrative Agent received at its address specified pursuant to Article 13 or at any Lending Installation specified in a notice received by the Administrative Agent from such Lender.
 
Section 2.14Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender from time to time, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
.  Noteless Agreement; Evidence of Indebtedness. 
 
(a)        The Administrative Agent shall also maintain accounts in which it will record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Type thereof and the Interest Period with respect thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from the Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder from the Borrower and each Lender's share thereof.
 
(b)        The entries maintained in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above shall be prima facie evidence of the existence and amounts of the Obligations therein recorded; , , that the failure of the Administrative Agent or any Lender to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of the Borrower to repay the Obligations in accordance with their terms.
provided
however
 
(c)        Any Lender may request that its Loans be evidenced by a promissory note in substantially the form of Exhibit A (including any amendment, modification, renewal or replacement thereof, a "").  In such event, the Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such Lender such Note payable to the order of such Lender.  Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such Note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after any assignment pursuant to Section 12.03) be represented by one or more Notes payable to the order of the payee named therein or any assignee pursuant to Section 12.03, except to the extent that any such Lender or assignee subsequently returns any such Note for cancellation and requests that such Loans once again be evidenced as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) above.  Upon receipt of an affidavit of an officer of any Lender as to the loss, theft, destruction or mutilation of such Lender's Note, and, in the case of any such loss, theft, destruction or mutilation, upon cancellation of such Note, the Borrower will issue, in lieu thereof, a replacement Note in the same principal amount thereof and otherwise of like tenor.
Note
 
Section 2.15The Borrower hereby authorizes the Lenders and the Administrative Agent to extend, convert or continue Advances, effect selections of Types of Advances and to transfer funds based on telephonic notices made by any person or persons the Administrative Agent or any Lender in good faith believes to be acting on behalf of the Borrower, it being understood that the foregoing authorization is specifically intended to allow Borrowing Notices and Conversion/Continuation Notices to be given telephonically; that the Borrower delivers promptly to the Administrative Agent a written confirmation of each telephonic notice signed by an Authorized Officer.  If the written confirmation differs in any
.  Telephonic Notices. 
provided
material respect from the action taken by the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, the records of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall govern absent manifest error.
 
Section 2.16Interest accrued on each Alternate Base Rate Advance shall be payable on each Payment Date, commencing with the first such date to occur after the date hereof, on any date on which an Alternate Base Rate Advance is prepaid (with respect to the principal so prepaid), whether due to acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity.  Interest accrued on that portion of the outstanding principal amount of any Alternate Base Rate Advance converted into a Eurodollar Advance on a day other than a Payment Date shall be payable on the date of conversion.  Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance shall be payable on the last day of its applicable Interest Period, on any date on which the Eurodollar Advance is prepaid (with respect to the principal so prepaid), whether by acceleration or otherwise, and at maturity.  Interest accrued on each Eurodollar Advance having an Interest Period longer than three (3) months shall also be payable on the last day of each three-month interval during such Interest Period.  Interest with respect to Eurodollar Loans, Commitment Fees and Alternate Base Rate Loans for which interest is not determined by reference to the Prime Rate shall be calculated for actual days elapsed on the basis of a 360 day year.  Interest with respect to Alternate Base Rate Loans for which interest is determined by reference to the Prime Rate shall be calculated for the actual days elapsed on the basis of a 365 or 366 day year, as applicable.  Interest shall be payable for the day an Advance is made but not for the day of any payment.  If any payment of principal of or interest on an Advance shall become due on a day which is not a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of a principal payment, such extension of time shall be included in computing interest in connection with such payment.
.  Interest Payment Dates; Interest and Fee Basis. 
 
Section 2.17Promptly after receipt thereof, the Administrative Agent will notify each Lender of the contents of each Aggregate Commitment reduction notice, Borrowing Notice, Conversion/Continuation Notice, and repayment notice received by it hereunder.  The Administrative Agent will notify each Lender of the Eurodollar Rate applicable to each Eurodollar Advance promptly upon determination of such interest rate and will give each Lender prompt notice of each change in the Alternate Base Rate.
.  Notification of Advances, Interest Rates, Prepayments and Commitment Reductions. 
 
Section 2.18.  .  Each Lender may book its Loans at any Lending Installation selected by such Lender and may change its Lending Installation from time to time.  All terms of this Agreement shall apply to any such Lending Installation and the Loans and any Notes issued hereunder shall be deemed held by each Lender for the benefit of any such Lending Installation.  Each Lender may, by written notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in accordance with Article 13, designate replacement or additional Lending Installations through which Loans will be made by it will be issued by it and for whose account Loan payments are to be made.
Lending Installations
 
Section 2.19Unless the Borrower or a Lender, as the case may be, notifies the Administrative Agent prior to the time at which it is
.  Non-Receipt of Funds by the Administrative Agent. 
scheduled to make payment to the Administrative Agent of (a) in the case of a Lender, the proceeds of a Loan, or (b) in the case of the Borrower, a payment of principal, interest or fees to the Administrative Agent for the account of the Lenders, that it does not intend to make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such payment has been made.  The Administrative Agent may, but shall not be obligated to, make the amount of such payment available to the intended recipient in reliance upon such assumption.  If such Lender or the Borrower, as the case may be, has not in fact made such payment to the Administrative Agent, the recipient of such payment shall, on demand by the Administrative Agent, repay to the Administrative Agent the amount so made available together with interest thereon in respect of each day during the period commencing on the date such amount was so made available by the Administrative Agent until the date the Administrative Agent recovers such amount at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of payment by a Lender, the Federal Funds Effective Rate for such day for the first three (3) days and, thereafter, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan or (ii) in the case of payment by the Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the relevant Loan.
 
Section 2.20If (a) the Borrower is required pursuant to Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.05 to make any additional payment to any Lender, (b) any Lender's obligation to make or continue, or to convert Alternate Base Rate Advances into, Eurodollar Advances shall be suspended pursuant to Section 3.03, or (c) any Lender is a Defaulting Lender (any Lender so affected an ""), the Borrower may elect, if such amounts continue to be charged or such suspension is still effective or such Lender continues to be a Defaulting Lender, to replace such Affected Lender as a Lender party to this Agreement, provided that no Default or Unmatured Default shall have occurred and be continuing at the time of such replacement, and that, concurrently with such replacement, (i) another bank or other entity which is reasonably satisfactory to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall agree, as of such date, to purchase for cash the Advances at par and other Obligations due to the Affected Lender pursuant to an assignment substantially in the form of Exhibit C and to become a Lender for all purposes under this Agreement and to assume all obligations of the Affected Lender to be terminated as of such date and to comply with the requirements of Section 12.03 applicable to assignments, and (ii) the Borrower and/or the assignee shall pay to such Affected Lender in same day funds on the day of such replacement (A) all interest, fees and other amounts then accrued but unpaid to such Affected Lender by the Borrower hereunder to and including the date of termination, including without limitation payments due to such Affected Lender under Section 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05, and (B) an amount, if any, equal to the payment which would have been due to such Lender on the day of such replacement under Section 3.04 had the Loans of such Affected Lender been prepaid on such date rather than sold to the replacement Lender.  For purposes hereof, "" means a Lender that has (i) defaulted in its obligation to fund any Loan within one Business Day after the date required to be funded by it or (ii) has (or whose parent company has) become the subject of a bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding or has had a receiver or conservator appointed with respect to such Lender (or such Lender's parent company) at the direction or request of any regulatory agency or authority (or similar regulatory action has been taken with respect to such Lender or parent company of such Lender, provided that a Lender shall not become a Defaulting Lender solely as a result of either (1) the acquisition or maintenance of an ownership interest in such Lender or a Person controlling such Lender by a
.  Replacement of Lender. 
Affected Lender
provided
further
Defaulting Lender
Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof or (2) the exercise of control over such Lender or Person controlling such Lender by a Governmental Authority or an instrumentality thereof incident to such ownership interest.
 
Section 3.01If, on or after the date of this Agreement, the adoption of any law or any governmental or quasi governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law), or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental or quasi-governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by any Lender or applicable Lending Installation with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency
.  Yield Protection. 
 
(a)        subjects any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to any Taxes or Other Taxes, or changes the basis of taxation of payments (other than with respect to Excluded Taxes) to any Lender in respect of its Eurodollar Loans, or
 
(b)        imposes or increases or deems applicable any reserve, assessment, insurance charge, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of, or credit extended by, any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation (other than reserves and assessments taken into account in determining the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Advances), or
 
(c)        imposes any other condition the result of which is to increase the cost to any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation of making, funding or maintaining its Eurodollar Loans, or reduces any amount receivable by any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation in connection with its Eurodollar Loans, or requires any Lender or any applicable Lending Installation to make any payment calculated by reference to the amount of Eurodollar Loans, held or interest received by it, by an amount deemed material by such Lender, and the result of any of the foregoing is to increase the cost to such Lender or applicable Lending Installation of making or maintaining its Eurodollar Loans or Commitment or to reduce the return received by such Lender or applicable Lending Installation in connection with such Eurodollar Loans or Commitment, then, within fifteen (15) days of demand by such Lender as provided in Section 3.06, the Borrower shall pay such Lender such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender for such increased cost or reduction in amount received.
 
Section 3.02If a Lender determines the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by such Lender, any Lending Installation of such Lender or any corporation controlling such Lender is increased as a result of a Change, then, within fifteen (15) days of demand by such Lender as provided in Section 3.06, the Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount necessary to compensate for any shortfall in the
.  Changes in Capital Adequacy Regulations. 
rate of return on the portion of such increased capital which such Lender determines is attributable to this Agreement, its Outstanding Credit Exposure or its Commitment to make Loans hereunder (after taking into account such Lender's policies as to capital adequacy).  "" means (a) any change after the date of this Agreement in the Risk-Based Capital Guidelines or (b) any adoption of or change in any other law, governmental or quasi governmental rule, regulation, policy, guideline, interpretation, or directive (whether or not having the force of law) after the date of this Agreement which affects the amount of capital required or expected to be maintained by any Lender or any Lending Installation or any Person controlling any Lender.  "" means (a) the risk-based capital guidelines in effect in the United States on the date of this Agreement, including transition rules, and (b) the corresponding capital regulations promulgated by regulatory authorities outside the United States implementing the July 1988 report of the Basel Committee on Banking Regulation and Supervisory Practices entitled "International Convergence of Capital Measurements and Capital Standards," including transition rules, and any amendments to such regulations adopted prior to the date of this Agreement.
Change
Risk-Based Capital Guidelines
 
Section 3.03If any Lender determines that maintenance of its Eurodollar Loans at a suitable Lending Installation would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation, interpretation or directive, whether or not having the force of law, or if the Required Lenders determine that (a) deposits of a type and maturity appropriate to match fund Eurodollar Advances are not available or (b) the interest rate applicable to Eurodollar Advances does not accurately or fairly reflect the cost of making or maintaining Eurodollar Advances, then the Administrative Agent shall suspend the availability of Eurodollar Advances and require any affected Eurodollar Advances to be repaid or converted to Alternate Base Rate Advances, subject to the payment of any funding indemnification amounts required by Section 3.04.
.  Availability of Types of Advances. 
 
Section 3.04If any payment of a Eurodollar Advance occurs on a date prior to the last day of the applicable Interest Period, whether because of acceleration, prepayment or otherwise, or a Eurodollar Advance is not made on the date specified by the Borrower for any reason other than default by the Lenders, the Borrower will indemnify each Lender for any loss or cost incurred by it resulting therefrom, including, without limitation, any loss or cost in liquidating or employing deposits acquired to fund or maintain such Eurodollar Advance.
.  Funding Indemnification. 
 
Section 3.05
.  Taxes.
 
(a)        Subject to applicable law, all payments by the Borrower to or for the account of any Lender or the Administrative Agent hereunder or under any Note shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any and all Taxes.  Subject to subsection (c) below and Section 3.06, if the Borrower shall be required by law to deduct any Taxes from or in respect of any sum payable hereunder to any Lender or the Administrative Agent, (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section 3.05) such Lender or the Administrative
 
Agent (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) the Borrower shall make such deductions, (iii) the Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant authority in accordance with applicable law and (iv) the Borrower shall furnish to the Administrative Agent the original copy of a receipt evidencing payment thereof, or other evidence reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent, within thirty (30) days after such payment is made.
 
(b)        In addition, the Borrower hereby agrees to pay any present or future stamp or documentary taxes and any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies which arise from any payment made hereunder or under any Note or from the execution or delivery of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement or any Note ("").
Other Taxes
 
(c)        The Borrower hereby agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender for the full amount of Taxes or Other Taxes (including, without limitation, any Taxes or Other Taxes imposed on amounts payable under this Section 3.05) paid by the Administrative Agent or such Lender and any liability (including penalties, interest and expenses) arising therefrom or with respect thereto.  Payments due under this indemnification shall be made within thirty (30) days of the date the Administrative Agent or such Lender makes demand therefor pursuant to Section 3.06.
 
(d)        Each Lender that is not incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (each a "") agrees that it will, not more than ten (10) Business Days after the date of this Agreement (or, in the case of a Lender who becomes a party hereto after the date of this Agreement, the date it becomes a party hereto), deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or W-8IMY (and any required attachments), certifying in either case that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes.  Each Non-U.S. Lender further undertakes, to the extent lawful at such time, to deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (i) renewals or additional copies of such form (or any successor form) on or before the date that such form expires or becomes obsolete, and (ii) after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent forms so delivered by it, such additional forms or amendments thereto as may be required by applicable law or otherwise reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent.  In addition, each Non-US Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower any documents as shall be prescribed by applicable law or otherwise reasonably requested to demonstrate that payments to such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are exempt from any United States federal withholding tax imposed pursuant to FATCA.  All forms or amendments described in the preceding sentence shall certify that such Lender is entitled to receive payments of interest under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless an event (including without limitation any change in treaty, law or regulation) has occurred after the date it became a Lender hereunder and prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such
Non-U.S. Lender
form or amendment with respect to it and such Lender advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that it is not capable of receiving payments of interest without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax.  For purposes of this Section 3.05(d), each change of a Lender's Lending Installation in accordance with Section 2.18 shall be treated as though such Lending Installation became a party hereto on the date of such change of Lending Installation.
 
(e)        For any period during which a Non-U.S. Lender has failed to provide the Borrower with an appropriate form or other document pursuant to clause (d) above (unless such failure is due to a change in treaty, law or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any Governmental Authority, occurring subsequent to the date on which a form or other document originally was required to be provided), such Non-U.S. Lender shall not be entitled to indemnification under this Section 3.05 with respect to Taxes imposed by the United States; that, should a Non-U.S. Lender which is otherwise exempt from or subject to a reduced rate of withholding tax become subject to Taxes because of its failure to deliver a form or other document required under clause (d), above, the Borrower shall take such steps as such Non-U.S. Lender shall reasonably request to assist such Non-U.S. Lender to recover such Taxes.
provided
 
(f)         Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax with respect to payments under this Agreement or any Note pursuant to the law of any relevant jurisdiction or any treaty shall deliver to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate.
 
(g)        Each Lender that is not a Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent), executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements.
 
(h)        If the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or any other Governmental Authority of the United States or any other country or any political subdivision thereof asserts a claim that the Administrative Agent did not properly withhold tax from amounts paid to or for the account of any Lender (because the appropriate form was not delivered or properly completed, because such Lender failed to notify the Administrative Agent of a change in circumstances which rendered its exemption from withholding ineffective, or for any other reason not caused by or constituting gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrative Agent), such Lender shall indemnify the Administrative Agent fully for all amounts paid, directly or indirectly, by the Administrative Agent as tax, withholding therefor, or otherwise, including penalties and interest, and including taxes imposed by any jurisdiction on amounts payable to the Administrative Agent
 
under this subsection, together with all reasonable costs and expenses related thereto (including reasonable attorneys' fees and reasonable time charges of attorneys for the Administrative Agent, which attorneys may be employees of the Administrative Agent).  The obligations of the Lenders under this Section 3.05(h) shall survive the payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
 
Section 3.06To the extent reasonably possible, each Lender shall designate an alternate Lending Installation with respect to its Eurodollar Loans to reduce any liability of the Borrower to such Lender under Sections 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05 or to avoid the unavailability of Eurodollar Advances under Section 3.03, so long as such designation is not, in the judgment of such Lender, disadvantageous to such Lender.  Each Lender shall deliver a written statement of such Lender to the Borrower (with a copy to the Administrative Agent) as to the amount due, if any, under Section 3.01, 3.02, 3.04 or 3.05.  Such written statement shall set forth in reasonable detail the calculations upon which such Lender determined such amount and shall be final, conclusive and binding on the Borrower in the absence of manifest error.  If any Lender fails to deliver such written statement within 180 days after the date on which the Lender becomes aware of the event or occurrence giving rise to such claim, the Borrower shall have no obligation to reimburse, compensate or indemnify such Lender with respect to any such claim under this Article 3 for any period more than 180 days before the date on which such statement is delivered.  Determination of amounts payable under such Sections in connection with a Eurodollar Loan shall be calculated as though each Lender funded its Eurodollar Loan through the purchase of a deposit of the type and maturity corresponding to the deposit used as a reference in determining the Eurodollar Rate applicable to such Loan, whether in fact that is the case or not.  Unless otherwise provided herein, the amount specified in the written statement of any Lender shall be payable on demand after receipt by the Borrower of such written statement.  The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.01, 3.02, 3.04 and 3.05 shall survive payment of the Obligations and termination of this Agreement.
.  Lender Statements; Survival of Indemnity. 
 
Section 4.01This Agreement shall not become effective unless and until the Borrower has furnished the following to the Administrative Agent with sufficient copies for the Lenders and the other conditions set forth below have been satisfied:
.  Effectiveness. 
 
(a)
                       
Charter Documents; Good Standing Certificates
.  Copies of the certificate of incorporation of the Borrower, together with all amendments thereto, both certified by the appropriate governmental officer in its jurisdiction of incorporation, together with a good standing certificate issued by the Secretary of State of the jurisdiction of its incorporation and such other jurisdictions as shall be requested by the Administrative Agent.
(b)
                      
By-Laws and Resolutions
.  Copies, certified by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, of its by-laws and of its Board of Directors' resolutions authorizing the execution, delivery and performance of the Loan Documents.
 
(c)
                       
Secretary's Certificate
.  An incumbency certificate, executed by the Secretary or Assistant Secretary of the Borrower, which shall identify by name and title and bear the signature of the officers of the Borrower authorized to sign the Loan Documents and to make borrowings hereunder, upon which certificate the Administrative Agent and the Lenders shall be entitled to rely until informed of any change in writing by the Borrower.
 
(d)
                      
Legal Opinions of Counsel to Borrower
.  Written opinions of (i) internal counsel to the Borrower and (ii) Sidley Austin LLP, special counsel to the Borrower, addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders in customary form.
 
(e)
                       
Notes
.  Any Notes requested by a Lender pursuant to Section 2.14 not less than two (2) Business Days prior to the Effective Date payable to the order of each such requesting Lender.
 
(f)
                         
Loan Documents
.  Executed originals of this Agreement and each of the other Loan Documents, which shall be in full force and effect, together with all schedules, exhibits, certificates, instruments, opinions, documents and financial statements required to be delivered pursuant hereto and thereto.
 
(g)
                      
Payment of Fees
.  The Lenders and the Agents shall have received all fees and expenses required to be paid on or prior to the Effective Date (including pursuant to the Commitment Letter, the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter and the Fee Letter) and, with regard to expenses, for which invoices have been presented to the Borrower not less than one Business Day prior to the Effective Date.
 
(h)
                      
USA PATRIOT Act
.  The Lenders shall have received, to the extent requested by the Lenders at least 5 Business Days prior to the Effective Date, all documentation and other information required by regulatory authorities under applicable "" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA PATRIOT Act; that if any such request was received by the Borrower at least 10 Business Days prior to the Effective Date, the Borrower shall have provided such documents and other information at least 5 Business Days prior to the Effective Date.
know your customer
provided
 
Section 4.02The Lenders shall not be required to make any Credit Extension unless the Effective Date shall have occurred and the following additional conditions precedent have been satisfied prior to the termination of the Commitments pursuant to Section 2.05:
.  Conditions Precedent to the Advances on the Closing Date. 
 
(a)
                       
Payment of Fees
.  The Lenders and the Agents shall have received all fees and expenses required to be paid on or prior to the Closing Date (including pursuant to the Commitment Letter, the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter or the Fee Letter) and, with regard to
expenses, for which invoices have been presented to the Borrower not less than one Business Day prior to the Closing Date.
 
(b)
                      
Defaults
.  There exists no Default or Unmatured Default and none would result from such Credit Extension other than a Default or Unmatured Default arising as a result of (i) any breach of Section 7.01(a) as a result of representations and warranties (other than the Closing Date Specified Representations) made or deemed made by the Borrower hereunder or under any other Loan Document or (ii) any breach of Section 7.01(e) as a result of representations and warranties made or deemed made by the Borrower under the Term Credit Agreement or the Term Loan Documents.
 
(c)
                       
Representations and Warranties
.  (i) The Closing Date Specified Representations shall be true and correct in all material respects on the Closing Date giving effect to the Transactions; that to the extent any of the Closing Date Specified Representations are qualified by reference to the absence of a "Material Adverse Effect," such representation shall, solely for the purpose of determining satisfaction of this condition precedent, be deemed to be qualified by reference to the absence of a Borrower Material Adverse Effect and the absence of a Company Material Adverse Effect and (ii) such of the representations and warranties made by or on behalf of the Company and its Subsidiaries in the Merger Agreement as are material to the interests of the Lenders, but only to the extent that the Borrower has the right to terminate its obligations under the Merger Agreement as a result of a breach of such representations in the Merger Agreement, shall be true and correct in all material respects.
provided
 
(d)
                      
Borrowing Notice
.  A Borrowing Notice shall have been properly submitted.  Such Borrowing Notice shall constitute a representation and warranty by the Borrower that the conditions contained in this Section 4.02 have been satisfied.
 
(e)
                       
Consummation of Merger
.  The Merger and the other Transactions shall be consummated simultaneously (or substantially simultaneously or concurrently) (other than the Subsequent Merger which shall be consummated immediately following the Merger) with the funding of the Loans in accordance with applicable law and on the terms described herein and in the Merger Agreement.  The Merger Agreement shall not have been amended or modified, and no condition shall have been waived or consent granted, in any respect that is materially adverse to the Arrangers, the Lenders or the Borrower without the Arrangers' prior written consent, it being understood and agreed that any change to the transaction structure or the Merger Consideration shall be deemed materially adverse to the Lenders.
 
(f)
                         
Term Loans
.  The Borrower shall have received (or shall substantially simultaneously or concurrently with the funding of the Loans hereunder receive) not more than $1,000,000,000 from the borrowings under the Term Credit Agreement.
 
(g)
                      
Repayment of Indebtedness
.  After giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries shall have outstanding no Indebtedness of the type referred to in clause (a) or (d) of the definition thereof, credit facilities or preferred stock other than (i) the Loans and other extensions of credit under this Agreement,
(ii) the Senior Notes and/or the loans under the Term Credit Agreement, (iii) the Indebtedness incurred or outstanding under the Continuing Debt Instruments in the amounts specified in Schedule 4.02(g), (iv) any Excluded Indebtedness and (v) other Indebtedness as approved in writing by the Required Lenders.
 
(h)
                      
Financial Statements
.  The Borrower shall have furnished to the Administrative Agent the unaudited financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries and the Company and its Subsidiaries for each fiscal quarter ended during the period commencing January 1, 2010 (in the case of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) or October 1, 2009 (in the case of the Company and its Subsidiaries) and ending at least 40 days prior to the Closing Date (or, in the case of any fiscal quarter that is the last quarter of a fiscal year, at least 60 days prior to the Closing Date) (collectively the "").
Financial Statements
 
(i)
                          
Pro Forma Balance Sheet
. 
The Borrower shall have furnished to the Administrative Agent a consolidated balance sheet and related consolidated statement of income prepared in connection with the stockholder meetings for the Transactions, and which financial statements shall meet the requirements of Regulation S-X under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and all other applicable accounting rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder, in each case applicable to a registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 on Form S-4 (the ""); provided that in the event that Financial Statements of the Borrower and the Company shall have been delivered pursuant to Section 4.02(h) above after the date such Pro Forma Financials shall have been mailed to the stockholders of Borrower and the Company, the Pro Forma Financials shall be updated to reflect such newer Financial Statements on a basis consistent with the preparation of the Pro Forma Financials.
pro forma
pro forma
pro forma
Pro Forma
Financials
 
(j)
                          
Consolidated Leverage Ratio
.  The Arrangers shall be satisfied that, on the Closing Date and giving effect to the Transactions (as described in clause (i) above), the Consolidated Leverage Ratio shall not exceed 3.0 to 1.0.
pro forma
 
(k)
                       
Solvency Certificate
.  The Arrangers shall have received a certificate from the chief financial officer of the Borrower in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers (or, at the Borrower's option, a solvency opinion from an independent investment bank or valuation firm of nationally recognized standing, such opinion to be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Arrangers) certifying that the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis immediately after giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to occur on the Closing Date (including without limitation, the funding of the Loans hereunder on the Closing Date and the application of the proceeds thereof), are Solvent.
 
(l)
                          
Government Approvals
.  All requisite Governmental Authorities and third parties shall have approved or consented to the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and the Loan Documents to the extent required, all applicable appeal periods shall have expired and there shall be no litigation, governmental, administrative or judicial action, actual or
threatened, that could reasonably be expected to restrain, prevent or impose burdensome conditions on this Agreement or the Loan Documents.
 
(m)
                    
Ratings Condition
.  As of the Closing Date, the Borrower Debt Rating shall be BBB- (with no negative outlook) or higher from S&P and Baa3 (with no negative outlook) or higher from Moody's.
 
(n)
                      
Borrower Material Adverse Change
.  Except (i) as disclosed in the Parent SEC Documents (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 11, 2010 (excluding any risk factor disclosures contained under the heading "Risk Factors," any disclosure of risk included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer or any other statements that are similarly predictive or forward-looking in nature) and (ii) as disclosed in Section 4.07(a) of the Parent Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010), since December 31, 2009, there shall not have occurred any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Borrower Material Adverse Effect (a "").
e
Borrower Material Adverse Chang
 
(o)
                      
Company Material Adverse Change. 
Except (i) as disclosed in the Company SEC Documents (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to July 11, 2010 (excluding any risk factor disclosures contained under the heading "Risk Factors," any disclosure of risk included in any "forward-looking statements" disclaimer or any other statements that are similarly predictive or forward-looking in nature) and (ii) as disclosed in Section 3.07(a) of the Company Disclosure Letter (as defined in the Merger Agreement as in effect on July 11, 2010), since September 30, 2009, there shall not have occurred any event, change, effect, development, state of facts, condition, circumstance or occurrence that has had or would reasonably be expected to have, individually or in the aggregate, a Company Material Adverse Effect (a "").
Company Material Adverse Change
 
(p)
                      
Officer's Certificate
. Receipt by each Arranger of a certificate of an Authorized Officer of the Borrower certifying as to the matters set forth in paragraphs (b), (c)(i), (e), (f), (g), (j), (l), (m) and (n) above, and to the best knowledge of the Borrower, as to the matters set forth in paragraphs (c)(ii) and (o) above.
 
The Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders on the Effective Date (solely with respect to the Effective Date Specified Representations) and on the Closing Date that:
Section 5.01Each of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries (other than Immaterial Subsidiaries) (a) is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and (b) is in good standing (to the extent the concept applies to such entity) under the laws of its jurisdiction of organization and is duly qualified and in good standing (to the extent the concept applies to such entity) and is duly authorized to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted or proposed to be conducted except where failure to be in such good standing or so qualified or authorized could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Corporate Existence and Standing. 
 
Section 5.02The Borrower has all requisite power and authority (corporate and otherwise) and legal right to execute and deliver each of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to perform its obligations thereunder.  The execution and delivery by the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party and the performance of its obligations thereunder have been duly authorized by proper corporate proceedings and such Loan Documents constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower enforceable against the Borrower in accordance with their terms, except as enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency or similar laws affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights generally.
.  Authorization and Validity. 
 
Section 5.03The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have complied in all material respects with all applicable statutes, rules, regulations, orders and restrictions of any domestic or foreign government, or any instrumentality or agency thereof, having jurisdiction over the conduct of their respective businesses or the ownership of their respective properties, except where the failure to so comply could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither (i)(A) the execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of the Loan Documents to which it is a party or (B) the application of the proceeds of the Loans, nor (ii) compliance with the provisions of the Loan Documents will, or at the relevant time did, (a) violate any law, rule, regulation (including Regulation U), order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding on the Borrower or any Subsidiary or the Borrower's or any Subsidiary's charter, articles or certificate of incorporation or by-laws, (b) violate the provisions of or require the approval or consent of any party to any indenture, instrument or agreement to which the Borrower or any Subsidiary is a party or is subject, or by which it, or its property, is bound, or conflict with or constitute a default thereunder, or result in the creation or imposition of any Lien (other than Liens permitted by the Loan Documents) in, of or on the property of the Borrower or any Subsidiary pursuant to the terms of any such indenture, instrument or agreement, or (c) require any consent of the stockholders of any Person, except for any violation of, or failure to obtain an approval or consent required under, any such indenture, instrument or agreement that could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Compliance with Laws and Contracts.
 
Section 5.04No order, consent, approval, qualification, license, authorization, or validation of, or filing, recording or registration with, or exemption by, or other action in respect of, any court, governmental or public body or authority, or any subdivision thereof, any securities exchange or other Person is or at the relevant time was required to authorize, or is or at the relevant time was required in connection with the execution, delivery, consummation or performance of, or the legality, validity, binding effect or
.  Governmental Consents. 
enforceability of, any of the Loan Documents or the application of the proceeds of the Loans.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default under or in violation of any foreign, federal, state or local law, rule, regulation, order, writ, judgment, injunction, decree or award binding upon or applicable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary, in each case the consequence of which default or violation could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.05Each of the Financial Statements was prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and fairly presents the consolidated financial condition and operations of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or, to the best of the Borrower's knowledge, the Company and its Subsidiaries, as applicable, at such dates and the consolidated results of their operations for the respective periods then ended (except, in the case of such unaudited statements, for normal year-end audit adjustments).
.  Financial Statements. 
 
Section 5.06No Material Adverse Change has occurred.
.  Material Adverse Change. 
 
Section 5.07The Borrower and its Subsidiaries have filed or caused to be filed on a timely basis and in correct form all United States federal, state and other material tax returns which are required to be filed and have paid all taxes due pursuant to said returns or pursuant to any assessment received by the Borrower or any Subsidiary, except such taxes, if any, as are being contested in good faith and as to which adequate reserves have been provided in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and as to which no Lien exists.  As of the date hereof, the United States income tax returns of the Borrower on a consolidated basis have been audited by the Internal Revenue Service through its Fiscal Year ending December 31, 2006.  No tax liens have been filed and no claims are being asserted with respect to any such taxes which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  The charges, accruals and reserves on the books of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries in respect of any taxes or other governmental charges are in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
.  Taxes. 
 
Section 5.08There is no litigation, arbitration, proceeding, inquiry or governmental investigation (including, without limitation, by the Federal Trade Commission) pending or, to the knowledge of any of their officers, threatened against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective Properties that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or to prevent, enjoin or unduly delay the making of any Credit Extensions under this Agreement, except for Disclosed Claims.
.  Litigation and Contingent Obligations. 
 
Section 5.09Neither the Borrower nor any other member of the Controlled Group maintains, or is obligated to contribute to, any Multiemployer Plan or has incurred, or is reasonably expected to incur, any withdrawal liability to any Multiemployer Plan.  Each Plan complies in all material respects with its terms and with all applicable requirements of law and regulations.  Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has, with respect to any Plan, failed to make any contribution or pay any amount required under Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA or the terms of such Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  There are no pending or, to the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened claims, actions, investigations or lawsuits against any Plan, any fiduciary thereof, or
.  ERISA. 
the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group with respect to a Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any member of the Controlled Group has engaged in any prohibited transaction (as defined in Section 4975 of the Code or Section 406 of ERISA) in connection with any Plan which would subject such Person to any material liability.  No Termination Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur with respect to any Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.10No Default or Unmatured Default has occurred and is continuing.
.  Defaults. 
 
Section 5.11Margin Stock constitutes less than 25% of those assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which are subject to any limitation on sale, pledge or other restriction hereunder.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is engaged, directly or indirectly, principally, or as one of its important activities, in the business of extending, or arranging for the extension of, credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock.  No part of the proceeds of any Loan will be used in a manner which would violate, or result in a violation of, Regulation U.  Neither the making of any Advance hereunder nor the use of the proceeds thereof will violate or be inconsistent with the provisions of Regulation U.
.  Regulation U. 
 
Section 5.12Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is, or after giving effect to any Advance will be, an "investment company" or a company "controlled" by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
.  Investment Company. 
 
Section 5.13As of the date of this Agreement, the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have a subsisting leasehold interest in, or good and marketable title, free of all Liens, other than those permitted by Section 6.12 or by any of the other Loan Documents, to all of the properties and assets reflected in the Financial Statements delivered on or prior to the date hereof as being owned by it, except for assets sold, transferred or otherwise disposed of in the ordinary course of business since the date thereof.  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries own or possess rights to use all licenses, patents, patent applications, copyrights, service marks, trademarks and trade names necessary to continue to conduct their business as currently conducted, and no such license, patent or trademark has been declared invalid, been limited by order of any court or by agreement or is the subject of any infringement, interference or similar proceeding or challenge, except for proceedings and challenges which could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Ownership of Properties. 
 
Section 5.14Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is a party to any agreement or instrument or subject to any charter or other corporate restriction which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect or which restricts or imposes conditions upon the ability of any Subsidiary to (a) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock, (b) make loans or advances to the Borrower or (c) repay loans or advances from the Borrower.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary is in default in the performance, observance or fulfillment of any of the obligations, covenants or conditions contained in any
.  Material Agreements. 
agreement to which it is a party, which default could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 5.15There are no claims, investigations, litigation, administrative proceedings, notices, requests for information, whether pending or threatened, or judgments or orders asserting violations of applicable federal, state and local environmental, health and safety statutes, regulations, ordinances, codes, rules, orders, decrees, directives and standards ("") or relating to any toxic or hazardous waste, substance or chemical or any pollutant, contaminant, chemical or other substance defined or regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law, including, without limitation, asbestos, petroleum, crude oil or any fraction thereof ("") asserted against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries which, in any case, could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.  Neither the Borrower nor any Subsidiary has caused or permitted any Hazardous Materials to be Released, either on or under real property, currently or formerly, legally or beneficially owned or operated by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or on or under real property to which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries transported, arranged for the transport or disposal of, or disposed of Hazardous Materials, which Release could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Environmental Laws. 
Environmental Laws
Hazardous Materials
 
Section 5.16The Borrower and its Subsidiaries maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance on their Property in such amounts and covering such risks as is consistent with sound business practice.
.  Insurance. 
 
Section 5.17No material license, permit or authorization of the Borrower or any Subsidiary to engage in the business of insurance or insurance-related activities is the subject of a proceeding for suspension or revocation, except where such suspension or revocation would not individually or in the aggregate have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Insurance Licenses. 
 
Section 5.18None of the (a) information, exhibits or reports furnished or to be furnished by the Borrower or any Subsidiary to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender in connection with the negotiation of the Loan Documents (including for the avoidance of doubt the Confidential Information Memorandum but excluding any projections) or (b) representations or warranties of the Borrower or any Subsidiary contained in this Agreement, the other Loan Documents, or any other document, certificate or written statement furnished to the Administrative Agent or the Lenders by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, as the case may be, when taken together, as of the date of its delivery, contained, contains or will contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omitted, omits or will omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements contained herein or therein not materially misleading in light of the circumstances in which the same were made.  The projections that have been or will be made available to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender by or on behalf of the Borrower or any Subsidiary have been or will be prepared in good faith based upon accounting principles consistent with the historical audited financial statements of the Borrower and the Company (except as otherwise expressly disclosed in such projections) and upon assumptions that the
.  Disclosure. 
Borrower believes to have been reasonable at the time made and at the time the related projections are made available to the Administrative Agent or to any Lender (it being understood that any such projections are subject to significant uncertainties and contingencies, many of which are beyond the Borrower's control, that no assurance can be given that such projections will be realized and that actual results may differ from such projections and that such differences may be material).  As of the date hereof, there is no fact known to the Borrower (other than matters of a general economic nature) that has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect and that has not been disclosed herein or in such other documents, certificates and statements furnished to the Lenders for use in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.
 
Section 5.19.  .  The Borrower and its Subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis immediately after giving effect to the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated hereby to occur on the Closing Date (including without limitation, the funding of the Loans hereunder on the Closing Date and the application of the proceeds thereof), are Solvent.
Solvency
 
Section 5.20.  The Obligations hereunder constitute "Senior Debt" (or the equivalent thereof) and "Designated Senior Debt" (or the equivalent thereof) under documentation governing subordinated Indebtedness permitted hereunder.
.  Senior Debt
 
Section 5.21
.   
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
To the Knowledge of the Borrower, (i)(a) as of the date hereof and (b) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, as of the Closing Date, it is in compliance in all material respects with the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "") and any other United States and foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments, (ii) except to the extent as could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect, between January 1, 2008 and the Closing Date and except as listed on Schedule 5.21 hereto, the Borrower has not been investigated by any Governmental Entity (as defined in the Merger Agreement) with respect to, or been given notice by a Governmental Entity of, any violation by the Borrower of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or any other United States or foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments and (iii) the Borrower and its Subsidiaries have an operational Foreign Corrupt Practices Act/anticorruption compliance program that includes, at a minimum, policies, procedures and training intended to enhance awareness of and compliance by the Borrower or such Subsidiary with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any other applicable United States or foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
 
So long as any Loan shall remain unpaid or any Lender shall have any Commitment hereunder, unless the Required Lenders shall otherwise consent in writing:
 
Section 6.01The Borrower will maintain, for itself and its Subsidiaries, a system of accounting established and administered in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, consistently applied, and will furnish to the Lenders:
.  Financial Reporting. 
 
(a)        (i) As soon as practicable and in any event within ninety (90) days after the close of each of its Fiscal Years, an unqualified audit report certified by independent certified public accountants, acceptable to the Lenders, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis for itself and its Subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of the end of such period and related statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows accompanied by (A) any management letter prepared by said accountants and (B) a certificate of said accountants that, in the course of their examination necessary for their certification of the foregoing, they have obtained no knowledge of any Default or Unmatured Default, or if, in the opinion of such accountants, any Default or Unmatured Default shall exist, stating the nature and status thereof.
 
(ii)  If the Closing Date has not occurred, as soon as practicable upon the same being made available by the Company to the Borrower, an unqualified audit report for the fiscal year of the Company ending September 30, 2010 certified by nationally recognized independent certified accountants, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles on a consolidated basis for the Company and its subsidiaries, including balance sheets as of the end of such period and related statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for such period; that the Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such audit report from the Company promptly following the due date for delivery thereof in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
provided
 
(b)        (i) As soon as practicable and in any event within 45 days after the close of the first three Fiscal Quarters of each of its Fiscal Years, for itself and its Subsidiaries, consolidated unaudited balance sheets as at the close of each such period and consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the period from the beginning of such Fiscal Year to the end of such quarter, all certified by its president or chief financial officer.
 
(ii)  If the Closing Date has not occurred, as soon as practicable upon the same being made available by the Company to the Borrower, for the Company and its subsidiaries, consolidated unaudited balance sheets as of the close of any fiscal quarter of the Company ending during the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the Closing Date, and consolidated statements of income, retained earnings and cash flows for the period from the beginning of such fiscal year to the end of such fiscal quarter, all certified by the Company's president or chief financial officer that the Borrower shall use commercially reasonable efforts to obtain such unaudited balance sheets from the Company promptly following the due date for delivery thereof in accordance with the Merger Agreement.
provided
 
(c)        Together with the financial statements required by clauses (a)(i) and (b)(i) above, a certificate in substantially the form of Exhibit B hereto signed by the Borrower's president or chief financial officer (i) showing the calculations necessary to determine compliance with
Section 6.12(k), 6.16(e), 6.17 and 6.19(h), that in the event of any change in generally accepted accounting principles used in the preparation of such financial statements, the Borrower shall also provide, if necessary for the determination of compliance with Section 6.17, a statement of reconciliation conforming such financial statements to Agreement Accounting Principles, and (ii) stating that no Default or Unmatured Default exists, or if any Default or Unmatured Default exists, stating the nature and status thereof.
provided
 
(d)        Promptly upon learning thereof, notice that a Single Employer Plan of the Borrower or any member of the Controlled Group is in "at risk" status within the meaning of Section 303 of ERISA or Section 430(i)(4) of the Code, and within 270 days after the close of each Fiscal Year, a statement of the Funded Target Attainment Percentage of each Single Employer Plan, certified as correct by an actuary enrolled under ERISA.
 
(e)        As soon as possible and in any event within ten (10) days after the Borrower knows that any Termination Event has occurred with respect to any Plan, a statement, signed by the chief financial officer of the Borrower, describing said Termination Event and the action which the Borrower proposes to take with respect thereto; that no such notice shall be required to be given unless either (i) such Termination Event could reasonably be expected to result in liabilities of the Borrower in excess of $25,000,000 or (ii) the occurrence of such Termination Event would trigger a requirement to deliver notice under Section 6.1(e) of the Existing Credit Facility or Section 20.7(b) of the Euro Facility.
provided
 
(f)         As soon as possible and in any event within ten (10) days after the Borrower learns thereof, notice of the assertion or commencement of any claims, action, suit or proceeding against or affecting the Borrower or any Subsidiary which may reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
(g)        Promptly upon learning thereof, notice of any change in the credit rating of the Borrower's senior unsecured long term debt by S&P or Moody's.
 
(h)        Promptly upon the furnishing thereof to the shareholders of the Borrower, copies of all financial statements, reports and proxy statements so furnished (or links to pages on the Borrower's website where such information may be accessed).
 
(i)         Promptly upon the filing thereof, copies of all registration statements and annual, quarterly, monthly or other regular reports which the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries files with the Securities and Exchange Commission (or links to pages on the Borrower's website where such information may be accessed).
 
(j)         Such other information (including, without limitation, non financial information and information required under the USA PATRIOT Act) as the Administrative Agent or any Lender may from time to time reasonably request.
 
Section 6.02The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, use the proceeds of the Credit Extensions, together with the proceeds of the Term Loans and, if
.  Use of Proceeds. 
 
applicable, the Senior Notes solely to (a) pay a portion of the Merger Consideration, (b) refinance certain of the existing Indebtedness of the Company and (c) pay the Transaction Costs.  The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, use any of the proceeds of the Advances (i) to purchase or carry any "margin stock" (as defined in Regulation U) or to finance the acquisition of any Person which has not been approved and recommended by the board of directors (or functional equivalent thereof) of such Person or (ii) in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and any other United States and foreign Laws concerning corrupting payments.
 
Section 6.03The Borrower will give prompt notice in writing to the Lenders of the occurrence of (a) any Default or Unmatured Default and (b) any other event or development, financial or other, relating specifically to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (and not of a general economic or political nature) which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Notice of Default. 
 
Section 6.04The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary  to, (a) carry on and conduct its business in substantially the same manner and in substantially the same fields of enterprise as it is presently conducted, and will not, and will not permit any of its Subsidiaries to, engage in any business other than (i) businesses in the same fields of enterprise as now conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries or the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) businesses that are reasonably related or incidental thereto or that, in the judgment of the board of directors of the Borrower, are reasonably expected to materially enhance the other businesses in which the Borrower and its Subsidiaries are engaged, and (b) do all things necessary to remain duly organized, validly existing and in good standing in its jurisdiction of organization and maintain all requisite authority to conduct its business in each jurisdiction in which its business is conducted, except where failure to be in such good standing or so qualified or authorized could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect; , , that nothing in this Section 6.04 shall prohibit the dissolution or sale, transfer or other disposition of any Subsidiary that is not otherwise prohibited by this Agreement.
.  Conduct of Business. 
provided
however
 
Section 6.05The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, timely file complete and correct United States federal and applicable foreign, state and local tax returns required by applicable law and pay when due all taxes, assessments and governmental charges and levies upon it or its income, profits or Property, except those which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which adequate reserves have been set aside.
.  Taxes. 
 
Section 6.06The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, maintain with financially sound and reputable insurance companies insurance on all their Property in such amounts and covering such risks as is consistent with sound business practice, and the Borrower will furnish to the Administrative Agent and any Lender upon request full information as to the insurance carried.
.  Insurance. 
Section 6.07The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations, orders, writs, judgments, injunctions, decrees or awards to which it may be subject, the failure to comply with which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  Compliance with Laws. 
 
Section 6.08The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, do all things necessary to maintain, preserve, protect and keep its Property in good repair, working order and condition, and make all necessary and proper repairs, renewals and replacements so that its business carried on in connection therewith may be properly conducted at all times.
.  Maintenance of Properties. 
 
Section 6.09The Borrower will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, permit the Administrative Agent and the Lenders, by their respective representatives and agents, to inspect any of the Property, corporate books and financial records of the Borrower and each Subsidiary, to examine and make copies of the books of accounts and other financial records of the Borrower and each Subsidiary, and to discuss the affairs, finances and accounts of the Borrower and each Subsidiary with, and to be advised as to the same by, their respective officers at such reasonable times and intervals as the Lenders may designate.  The Borrower will keep or cause to be kept, and cause each Subsidiary to keep or cause to be kept, appropriate records and books of account in which complete entries are to be made reflecting its and their business and financial transactions, such entries to be made in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles consistently applied.
.  Inspection. 
 
Section 6.10The Borrower will not declare or pay any dividends or make any distributions on its capital stock (other than dividends payable in its own capital stock) or redeem, repurchase or otherwise acquire or retire any of its capital stock or any options or other rights in respect thereof at any time outstanding except (i) in connection with the Transactions, (ii) the Borrower may declare and pay ordinary cash dividends with respect to its common stock that is economically equivalent (on a per share basis) to the ordinary cash dividends historically paid by the Borrower plus any increase in such dividend that is consistent with past practice and (iii) pursuant to any director or employee stock ownership plan or any other employee compensation plan.
.  Capital Stock and Dividends. 
 
Section 6.11The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, merge or consolidate with or into any other Person, except that (a) a wholly-owned Subsidiary may merge into the Borrower or any wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Borrower, (b) the Borrower or any Subsidiary may merge or consolidate with any other Person so long as, in the case of a merger or consolidation to which the Borrower is a party, the Borrower is the surviving corporation, and, in the case of a merger or consolidation to which a Subsidiary is a party and to which the Borrower is not a party, the surviving corporation is a Subsidiary, and in any such case, prior to and after giving effect to such merger or consolidation, no Default or Unmatured Default shall exist and (c) any Subsidiary may enter into a merger or consolidation as a means of effecting a disposition or acquisition which would not result in a Default or Unmatured Default.
.  Merger. 
 
Section 6.12The Borrower will not, nor will it permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, or suffer to exist any Lien in, of or on the Property of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, except:
.  Liens. 
 
(a)        Liens for taxes, assessments or governmental charges or levies on its Property if the same shall not at the time be delinquent or thereafter can be paid without penalty, or are being contested in good faith and by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves in accordance with generally accepted principles of accounting shall have been set aside on its books;
 
(b)        Liens imposed by law, such as carriers', warehousemen's and mechanics' liens and other similar liens arising in the ordinary course of business which secure the payment of obligations not more than sixty (60) days past due or which are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which adequate reserves shall have been set aside on its books;
 
(c)        Liens arising out of pledges or deposits under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation;
 
(d)        Utility easements, building restrictions and such other encumbrances or charges against real property as are of a nature generally existing with respect to properties of a similar character and which do not in any material way affect the marketability of the same or interfere with the use thereof in the business of the Borrower or the Subsidiaries;
 
(e)        Banker's liens, rights of set-off or similar rights in favor of a depository institution with respect to deposit accounts maintained with a depository institution in the ordinary course of business and securing obligations with respect to the maintenance of such accounts (and in no event securing any Indebtedness or other obligations);
 
(f)         Any Lien arising by operation of law in the ordinary course of business in respect of any obligation which is less than sixty (60) days overdue or which is being contested in good faith and by appropriate means and for which adequate reserves have been made;
 
(g)        Liens created by any of the Borrower or its Subsidiaries over deposits and investments in the ordinary course of such Person's insurance and reinsurance business to comply with the requirements of any regulatory body of insurance or insurance brokerage business;
 
(h)        Any Liens arising for the benefit of a credit institution pursuant to Clause 24 General Banking Conditions of the Netherlands Bankers Association () in respect of any bank account held with a credit institution in the Netherlands;
Algemene Voorwaarden van de Nederlandse Vereniging van Banken
 
(i)         Liens over and limited to the balance of credit balances on bank accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries created in order to facilitate the operation of such bank accounts
and other bank accounts of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a net balance basis with credit balances and debit balances on the various accounts being netted off for interest purposes;
 
(j)         Liens, if any, arising in connection with a Cananwill Securitization; and
 
(k)       Other Liens securing an aggregate principal amount of obligations at no time exceeding an amount equal to ten percent (10%) of Consolidated Net Worth at such time.
 
Section 6.13The Borrower will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any transaction (including, without limitation, the purchase or sale of any Property or service) with, or make any payment or transfer to, any Affiliate except (a) for transactions between the Borrower and any Wholly Owned Subsidiary of the Borrower or between Wholly Owned Subsidiaries of the Borrower or (b) in the ordinary course of business and pursuant to the reasonable requirements of the Borrower's or such Subsidiary's business and upon fair and reasonable terms no less favorable to the Borrower or such Subsidiary than the Borrower or such Subsidiary would obtain in a comparable arm's length transaction.
.  Affiliates. 
 
Section 6.14The Borrower shall not change its Fiscal Year to end on any date other than December 31 of each year.
.  Change in Fiscal Year. 
 
Section 6.15The Borrower (a) shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement which, directly or indirectly prohibits, or has the effect of prohibiting, or imposes materially adverse conditions upon, the ability of any Subsidiary to (i) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, (ii) make loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or (iii) repay loans or advances from the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, except (A) restrictions and limitations imposed by Law or by the Loan Documents, (B) customary restrictions and limitations contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets that is permitted hereunder, (C) restrictions and conditions imposed by agreements relating to Indebtedness of any Subsidiary in existence at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Subsidiary becoming a Subsidiary (or any refinancing or amendment thereof that does not result in a materially more restrictive restriction or condition); that such restrictions and conditions apply only to such Subsidiary and its respective Subsidiaries, (D) restrictions set forth in the Term Credit Agreement, (E) in the case of any Subsidiary that is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary, customary restrictions and conditions imposed by its organizational documents or any joint venture or similar agreement, (F) solely for the first 60 days following the Closing Date, restrictions set forth in any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is party as of the date hereof and (G) any other restrictions that could not reasonably be expected to impair the Borrower's ability to repay the Obligations as and when due and (b) shall comply with Section 6.15 of the Existing Credit Facility and Section 22.16 of the Euro Facility, in each case as if references therein to the "Obligations", were references to the Obligations, references to the "Loan Documents" or the "Finance Documents"
.  Restrictive Agreements. 
provided
were references to the Loan Documents and references to the "Advances" or the "Loans" were references to the Advances.
 
Section 6.16The Borrower will not make any Disposition or permit any Subsidiary to make any Disposition, except:
.  Dispositions. 
 
(a)        Dispositions of inventory in the ordinary course of business;
 
(b)        Dispositions of Property to the Borrower or any Subsidiary of the Borrower;
 
(c)        Dispositions by Subsidiaries primarily engaged in insurance underwriting or related activities from their investment portfolios in the ordinary course of business;
 
(d)        Dispositions of investments in cash equivalents in the usual course of treasury business; and
 
(e)        Any other Disposition of Property which represents no more than 25% of the Consolidated assets of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, as would be shown in the Consolidated financial statements of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries as at the end of the quarter immediately preceding the date on which such determination is made, to any other Person(s) in any Fiscal Year.
 
Section 6.17
.  Financial Covenants.
 
(a)        .  The Borrower will maintain as of the last day of each Measurement Period a ratio of Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense
 
(b)        The Borrower will maintain as of the last day of each Measurement Period a Consolidated Leverage Ratio of not more than 3.0 to 1.0.
Consolidated Leverage Ratio. 
 
Section 6.18The Borrower will (a) fulfill, and cause each member of the Controlled Group to fulfill, its obligations under the minimum funding standards of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, (b) comply, and cause each member of the Controlled Group to comply, with all applicable provisions of ERISA and the Code with respect to each Plan, except where such failure or noncompliance individually or in the aggregate would not have a Material Adverse Effect and (c) not, and not permit any member of the Controlled Group to, (i) seek a waiver of the minimum funding standards under ERISA, (ii) terminate or withdraw from any Plan or (iii) take any other action with respect to any Plan which would reasonably be expected to entitle the PBGC to terminate, impose liability in respect of, or cause a trustee to be appointed to administer, any Plan, unless the actions or events described in the foregoing clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) individually or in the aggregate would not have a Material Adverse Effect.
.  ERISA. 
 
Section 6.19The Borrower will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Indebtedness, except:
.  Indebtedness. 
 
(a)        Indebtedness under the Loan Documents;
 
(b)        Indebtedness under the Euro Facility, and any renewal and refinancing thereof, provided (i) that the committed amount thereof is not increased to an aggregate amount greater than the lesser of (A) 850,000,000 and (B) the amount permitted under Section 6.19(b) of the Existing Credit Agreement and (ii) no other Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary that becomes a borrower thereunder) becomes obligated in respect thereof;
 
(c)        Indebtedness owed to the Borrower or another Subsidiary of the Borrower;
 
(d)        Indebtedness under performance bonds, surety bonds or letter of credit obligations to provide security under worker's compensation laws, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, or other social security or retirement benefits, or similar legislation, and bank overdrafts, in each case, incurred in the ordinary course of business;
 
(e)        Indebtedness of any Subsidiary existing as of the date hereof (other than Indebtedness described in clause (a) or (b) above), and any renewal and refinancing thereof (including any other Subsidiary becoming a primary obligor in respect thereof); that the principal amount thereof is not increased;
provided
 
(f)         Indebtedness under Hedging Agreements entered into in the ordinary course of business and not for speculative purposes;
 
(g)        Indebtedness (to the extent such Indebtedness either (i) arises under clause (i) of the definition of "Indebtedness" or (ii) would not be reflected as indebtedness on a balance sheet of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries, calculated on a consolidated basis) under any Cananwill Securitization; and
 
(h)        Other Indebtedness in an aggregate amount outstanding at any time not to exceed 1,500,000,000 the amount of Indebtedness then outstanding under the Euro Facility and any renewal or refinancing thereof.
minus
 
Section 6.20Other than the Merger and the Subsequent Merger, the Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any of its Subsidiaries to, (a) acquire (by merger, joint venture or otherwise) all or a majority of the Equity Interests (with ordinary voting power), or all or substantially all of the assets, or any property or assets constituting a business unit, of any other Person or (b) make investments in any other Person (other the Borrower and its Subsidiaries) by acquiring less than a majority of the Equity Interests (with ordinary voting power) of such Person (excluding any investments made in connection with the Borrower's and any Subsidiary's normal cash management activities) if the consideration paid in respect of all such acquisitions or investments under this Section 6.20 since the Effective Date would exceed $300,000,000 in the aggregate; that to the extent any acquisition or investment shall include consideration of which all or any portion is Equity Interests of the Borrower, such portion constituting Equity Interests of the Borrower shall not count towards such $300,000,000 cap.
.  Acquisitions. 
provided
Section 7.01The occurrence of any one or more of the following events shall constitute a Default:
.  Defaults. 
 
(a)        Any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under or in connection with this Agreement, any other Loan Document, any Credit Extension, or any certificate or information delivered in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall be false in any material respect on the date as of which made or deemed made;
 
(b)        Nonpayment of any principal of any Loan when due or nonpayment of any interest upon any Loan or of any fee or obligation under any of the Loan Documents within three (3) Business Days after the same becomes due;
 
(c)        The breach by the Borrower of any of the terms or provisions of Section 6.02, 6.03(a) or Section 6.10 through 6.20;
 
(d)        The breach by the Borrower (other than a breach which constitutes a Default under clauses (a), (b) or (c) of this Section 7.01) of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement which is not remedied within twenty (20) days after written notice from the Administrative Agent or any Lender;
 
(e)        The occurrence of a Default (as defined in the Term Credit Agreement); or the failure of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries to pay any Indebtedness aggregating in excess of $25,000,000 when due; or the default by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries in the performance of any term, provision or condition contained in any agreement or agreements under which any such Indebtedness was created or is governed, or the occurrence of any other event or existence of any other condition, the effect of any of which is to cause such Indebtedness to become due prior to its stated maturity; or any such Indebtedness of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall be declared to be due and payable or required to be prepaid (other than by a regularly scheduled payment) prior to the stated maturity thereof.
 
(f)         The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries (other than Immaterial Subsidiaries) shall (i) have an order for relief entered with respect to it under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect, (ii) make an assignment for the benefit of creditors, (iii) apply for, seek, consent to, or acquiesce in, the appointment of a receiver, custodian, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official for it or any Substantial Portion of its Property, (iv) institute any proceeding seeking an order for relief under the Federal bankruptcy laws as now or hereafter in effect or seeking to adjudicate it a bankrupt or insolvent, or seeking dissolution, winding-up, liquidation, reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of it or its debts under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency or reorganization or relief of debtors or fail to file an answer or other pleading denying the material allegations of any such proceeding filed against it, (v) take any corporate action to authorize or effect any of the foregoing actions set forth in this Section
7.01(f), (vi) fail to contest in good faith any appointment or proceeding described in Section 7.01(g) or (vii) become unable to pay, not pay, or admit in writing its inability to pay, its debts generally as they become due.
 
(g)        Without the application, approval or consent of the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries, a receiver, trustee, examiner, liquidator or similar official shall be appointed for the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any Substantial Portion of its Property or a proceeding described in Section 7.01(f)(iv) shall be instituted against the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries and such appointment continues undischarged or such proceeding continues undismissed or unstayed for a period of sixty (60) consecutive days.
 
(h)        Any court, government or governmental agency shall condemn, seize or otherwise appropriate, or take custody or control of (each, a ""), all or any portion of the Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries which, when taken together with all other Property of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries so condemned, seized, appropriated, or taken custody or control of, during the twelve month period ending with the month in which any such Condemnation occurs, constitutes a Substantial Portion.
Condemnation
 
(i)         The Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries shall fail within thirty (30) days to pay, bond or otherwise discharge any judgment or order for the payment of money in excess of $25,000,000 (or multiple judgments or orders for the payment of an aggregate amount in excess of $50,000,000), which is not stayed on appeal or otherwise being appropriately contested in good faith and as to which no enforcement actions have been commenced.
 
(j)         Any Change in Control shall occur.
 
(k)        Any Termination Event shall occur in connection with any Plan which could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.
 
Section 8.01
.  Acceleration.
 
(a)        If any Default described in Section 7.01(f) or 7.01(g) occurs with respect to the Borrower, the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder shall automatically terminate and the Obligations shall immediately become due and payable without any election or action on the part of the Administrative Agent or any Lender.  If any other Default occurs, the Required Lenders (or the Administrative Agent with the consent or upon the instruction of the Required Lenders) may terminate or suspend the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder, or declare the Obligations to be due and payable, or both, whereupon the Obligations shall become immediately due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or notice of any kind, all of which the Borrower hereby expressly waives.
(b)        If, within ten (10) Business Days after (i) acceleration of the maturity of the Obligations or (ii) termination of the obligations of the Lenders to make Loans hereunder as a result of any Default (other than any Default as described in Section 7.01(f) or 7.01(g) with respect to the Borrower) and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the Obligations due shall have been obtained or entered, the Required Lenders, in their sole discretion, shall so direct the Administrative Agent, then the Administrative Agent shall, by notice to the Borrower, rescind and annul such acceleration and/or termination.
 
Section 8.02Subject to the provisions of this Article 8, the Required Lenders (or the Administrative Agent with the consent in writing of the Required Lenders) and the Borrower may enter into agreements supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding or modifying any provisions to the Loan Documents or changing in any manner the rights of the Lenders or the Borrower hereunder or thereunder or waiving any Default hereunder or thereunder; , , that no such supplemental agreement shall, without the consent of each Lender directly affected thereby:
.  Amendments. 
provided
however
 
(a)        Extend the Maturity Date, or the date for any scheduled payment of principal hereunder, compromise or forgive the principal amount of any Loan, or reduce the rate of interest or compromise or forgive payment of interest on any Loan, or reduce the amount of, or compromise or forgive payment of, any fee payable hereunder;
 
(b)        Reduce the percentage specified in the definition of Required Lenders;
 
(c)        Increase the amount of the Commitment of any Lender hereunder;
 
(d)        Amend this Section 8.02;
 
(e)        Permit any assignment by the Borrower of its Obligations or its rights hereunder;
 
(f)         Postpone the date fixed for any payment of principal of or interest on any Loan or the date fixed for any payment of fees or other amounts due hereunder; or
 
(g)        Change any provision hereof in a manner that would alter the funding of Loans required by Section 2.03 or the sharing of payments required by Section 2.13 or Section 11.02.
pro rata
pro rata
 
Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Agreement may be amended with the written consent of the Required Lenders, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower (i) to add one or more additional term loan facilities to this Agreement and to permit the extensions of credit and all related obligations and liabilities arising in connection therewith from time to time outstanding to share ratably in the benefits of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents with the obligations and liabilities from time to time outstanding in respect of the existing facilities hereunder, and (ii) in connection with the foregoing, to permit, as deemed appropriate by the Administrative Agent and approved by the Required Lenders, the Lenders providing such additional credit facilities to participate in any required vote or action required to
be approved by the Required Lenders or by any other number, percentage or class of Lenders hereunder.
 
No amendment of any provision of this Agreement relating to the Administrative Agent shall be effective without the written consent of the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent may waive payment of the fee required under Section 12.03(b) without obtaining the consent of any other party to this Agreement.
 
Section 8.03No delay or omission of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent to exercise any right under the Loan Documents shall impair such right or be construed to be a waiver of any Default or Unmatured Default or an acquiescence therein, and the making of a Credit Extension notwithstanding the existence of a Default or Unmatured Default or the inability of the Borrower to satisfy the conditions precedent to such Credit Extension shall not constitute any waiver or acquiescence.  Any single or partial exercise of any such right shall not preclude other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, and no waiver, amendment or other variation of the terms, conditions or provisions of the Loan Documents whatsoever shall be valid unless in writing signed by the Lenders required pursuant to Section 8.02, and then only to the extent in such writing specifically set forth.  All remedies contained in the Loan Documents or by law afforded shall be cumulative and all shall be available to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders until the Obligations have been paid in full.
.  Preservation of Rights. 
 
Section 9.01All representations and warranties of the Borrower contained in this Agreement or of the Borrower or any Subsidiary contained in any Loan Document shall survive the making of the Credit Extensions herein contemplated.
.  Survival of Representations. 
 
Section 9.02Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, no Lender shall be obligated to extend credit to the Borrower in violation of any limitation or prohibition provided by any applicable statute or regulation.
.  Governmental Regulation. 
 
Section 9.03 Section headings in the Loan Documents are for convenience of reference only, and shall not govern the interpretation of any of the provisions of the Loan Documents.
.  Headings.
 
Section 9.04The Loan Documents embody the entire agreement and understanding among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and supersede all prior agreements and understandings among the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders relating to the subject matter thereof other than the Fee Letter, the Commitment Letter and the Co-Arranger Commitment Letter.
.  Entire Agreement. 
 
Section 9.05The respective obligations of the Lenders hereunder are several and not joint and no Lender shall be the partner or agent of any other (except to the extent to which the Administrative Agent is authorized to act as such).  The failure of any Lender to perform any of its obligations hereunder shall not relieve any other Lender from any of its obligations hereunder.  This Agreement shall not be construed so as to confer any right or benefit upon any Person other than the parties to this Agreement, the Indemnified Persons and their respective successors and assigns; , , that the parties hereto expressly agree that each of the Arrangers shall enjoy the benefits of the provisions of Section 9.06, 9.10 and 10.08 to the extent specifically set forth therein and shall have the right to enforce such provisions on its own behalf and in its own name to the same extent as if it were a party to this Agreement.
.  Several Obligations; Benefits of this Agreement. 
provided
however
 
Section 9.06.  .
Expenses; Indemnification
 
(a)        The Borrower agrees to pay all (i) reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and the Arrangers in connection with the syndication of the Loans and the preparation and administration of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof or thereof (whether or not the transactions hereby or thereby contemplated shall be consummated) or (ii) expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Arranger, any Co-Arranger or any Lender in connection with the enforcement or protection of its rights in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents or in connection with the Loans made hereunder, including the fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers and the Lenders; that in the case of clause (i), Borrower shall only be required to pay the fees, charges and disbursement for one counsel for all such Persons (and, if reasonably necessary, of one regulatory counsel and one local counsel in any relevant jurisdiction for all such Persons and additional counsel if, in the opinion of any such Person, representation of all such Persons by one counsel would be inappropriate due to the existence of an actual or potential conflict of interest).
provided
 
(b)        The Borrower agrees to indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Agent, each Arranger, each Co-Arranger, each Lender and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and to hold each Indemnified Person harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including charges, disbursements and fees of counsel, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnified Person arising out of, in any way connected with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any other Loan Document or any agreement or instrument contemplated thereby, the performance by the parties thereto of their respective obligations thereunder or the consummation of the Transactions and the other transactions contemplated thereby (including the syndication of the Loans), (ii) the use of the proceeds of the Loans, (iii) any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether or not any Indemnified Person is a party thereto (and regardless of whether such matter is initiated by a third party or by the Borrower or any Subsidiary or any of their respective Affiliates), or (iv) any actual or alleged presence or Release of Hazardous Materials on any property currently or
Indemnified Person
formerly owned or operated by the Borrower or any of the Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Borrower or the Subsidiaries; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnified Person, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses (x) are found in a final, non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to have resulted from (A) the willful misconduct or gross negligence of such Indemnified Person or (B) a material breach in bad faith by the relevant Indemnified Person of the express contractual obligations of such Indemnified Person under this Agreement or (y) except with respect to clause (iv) of this Section 9.06(b), arise out of or in connection with any claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding that does not involve an act or omission of the Borrower or any of its Affiliates and that is brought by an Indemnified Person against any other Indemnified Person (excluding any claim brought against any Arranger, Co-Arranger or Agent in their capacity as such).  For purposes hereof, "" means all liabilities, obligations, damages, losses, claims, actions, suits, judgments, orders, fines, penalties, fees, expenses and costs (including administrative oversight costs, natural resource damages and remediation costs), whether contingent or otherwise, arising out of or relating to (a) compliance or non-compliance with any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the Release of any Hazardous Materials or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
provided
Environmental Liability
 
(c)        To the extent that the Borrower fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent in its capacity as such.
pro rata
provided
 
(d)        To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Borrower shall not assert, and hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnified Person, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or the use of the proceeds thereof.
 
(e)        The provisions of this Section 9.06 shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of the expiration of the term of this Agreement, the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of any of the Loans, the expiration of the Commitments, the invalidity or unenforceability of any term or provision of this Agreement or any other Loan Document, or any investigation made by or on behalf of the Administrative Agent.  All amounts due under this Section 9.06 shall be payable within fifteen (15) Business Days of the Borrower's receipt of written demand therefor.
Section 9.07All statements, notices, closing documents, and requests hereunder shall be furnished to the Administrative Agent with sufficient counterparts so that the Administrative Agent may furnish one to each of the Lenders.
.  Numbers of Documents. 
 
Section 9.08Except as provided to the contrary herein, all accounting terms used herein shall be interpreted and all accounting determinations hereunder shall be made in accordance with Agreement Accounting Principles.
.  Accounting. 
 
Section 9.09Any provision in any Loan Document that is held to be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid in any jurisdiction shall, as to that jurisdiction, be inoperative, unenforceable, or invalid without affecting the remaining provisions in that jurisdiction or the operation, enforceability, or validity of that provision in any other jurisdiction, and to this end the provisions of all Loan Documents are declared to be severable.
.  Severability of Provisions. 
 
Section 9.10The relationship between the Borrower on the one hand and the Lenders and the Administrative Agent on the other hand shall be solely that of borrower and lender.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender shall have any fiduciary responsibilities to the Borrower.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender undertakes any responsibility to the Borrower to review or inform the Borrower of any matter in connection with any phase of the Borrower's business or operations.  Neither the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers nor any Lender shall have any liability with respect to, and the Borrower hereby waives, releases and agrees not to sue for, any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages suffered by the Borrower in connection with, arising out of, or in any way related to the Loan Documents or the transactions contemplated thereby.
.  Nonliability of Lenders. 
 
Section 9.11Each of the Administrative Agent and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (a) to its Affiliates and to its and its Affiliates' respective managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives, and third party settlement providers (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (b) to the extent requested by any regulatory authority purporting to have jurisdiction over it or its Affiliates (including any self-regulatory authority, such as the National Association of Insurance Commissioners), (c) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process, (d) to any other party hereto, (e) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or under any Note or any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any Note or the enforcement of rights hereunder or thereunder, (f) subject to an agreement containing provisions no less restrictive than those of this Section, to (i) any assignee of or participant in, or any prospective assignee of or participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (ii) any actual or prospective party (or its managers, administrators, trustees, partners, directors, officers, employees, agents, advisors and other representatives) to any swap, derivative or other transaction under which payments are to be made by reference to the Borrower and its
.  Confidentiality. 
obligations, this Agreement or payments hereunder, (iii) any rating agency, or (iv) the CUSIP Service Bureau or any similar organization, (g) with the consent of the Borrower or (h) to the extent such Information (x) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (y) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any of their respective Affiliates on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Borrower.
 
For purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries relating to the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries or any of their respective businesses, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent or any Lender on a non-confidential basis prior to disclosure by the Borrower or any of its Subsidiaries.  Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
Information
 
Without limiting Section 9.04, the Borrower agrees that the terms of this Section 9.11 shall set forth the entire agreement between the Borrower and each Lender (including the Administrative Agent) with respect to any confidential information previously or hereafter received by such Lender in connection with this Agreement, and this Section 9.11 shall supersede any and all prior confidentiality agreements entered into by such Lender with respect to such confidential information.
 
Section 9.12The Borrower and each Lender hereby acknowledge and agree that the Administrative Agent, the Arrangers, the Co-Arrangers and/or their Affiliates from time to time may hold investments in, make other loans to or have other relationships with the Borrower and its Affiliates.
.  Disclosure. 
 
Section 9.13Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT ACT, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrower in accordance with the USA PATRIOT ACT.  The Borrower shall provide such information promptly upon the request of a Lender.
.  USA PATRIOT ACT NOTIFICATION. 
 
Section 10.01.  .  Each Lender hereby irrevocably appoints Credit Suisse AG to act on its behalf as the Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof or thereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.  Other than Section 10.06, the provisions of this Article are solely for the benefit of the Administrative Agent
Authorization and Authority
and the Lenders, and the Borrower shall have no rights as a third party beneficiary of any of such provisions.
 
Section 10.02.  . (a) The Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent and the term "Lender" or "Lenders" shall, unless otherwise expressly indicated or unless the context otherwise requires, include the Person serving as the Administrative Agent hereunder in its individual capacity.  Such Person and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to, act as the financial advisor or in any other advisory capacity for and generally engage in any kind of business with the Borrower or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if such Person were not the Administrative Agent hereunder and without any duty to account therefor to the Lenders.
Administrative Agent Individually
 
(b)           Each Lender understands that the Person serving as Administrative Agent, acting in its individual capacity, and its Affiliates (collectively, the "") are engaged in a wide range of financial services and businesses (including investment management, financing, securities trading, corporate and investment banking and research) (such services and businesses are collectively referred to in this Section 10.02 as "") and may engage in the Activities with or on behalf of the Borrower or its Affiliates.  Furthermore, the Agent's Group may, in undertaking the Activities, engage in trading in financial products or undertake other investment businesses for its own account or on behalf of others (including the Borrower and its Affiliates and including holding, for its own account or on behalf of others, equity, debt and similar positions in the Borrower or its Affiliates), including trading in or holding long, short or derivative positions in securities, loans or other financial products of one or more of the Borrower and its Affiliates.  Each Lender understands and agrees that in engaging in the Activities, the Agent's Group may receive or otherwise obtain information concerning the Borrower and its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents) which information may not be available to any of the Lenders that are not members of the Agent's Group.  None of the Administrative Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall have any duty to disclose to any Lender or use on behalf of the Lenders, and shall not be liable for the failure to so disclose or use, any information whatsoever about or derived from the Activities or otherwise (including any information concerning the business, prospects, operations, property, financial and other condition or creditworthiness of the Borrower or any Affiliate thereof) or to account for any revenue or profits obtained in connection with the Activities, except that the Administrative Agent shall deliver or otherwise make available to each Lender such documents as are expressly required by any Loan Document to be transmitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders.
Agent's Group
Activities
 
(c)           Each Lender further understands that there may be situations where members of the Agent's Group or their respective customers (including the Borrower and its Affiliates) either now have or may in the future have interests or take actions that may conflict with the interests of any one or more of the Lenders (including the interests of the Lenders hereunder and under the other Loan Documents).  Each Lender agrees that no member of the Agent's Group is or
shall be required to restrict its activities as a result of the Person serving as Administrative Agent being a member of the Agent's Group, and that each member of the Agent's Group may undertake any Activities without further consultation with or notification to any Lender.  None of (i) this Agreement nor any other Loan Document, (ii) the receipt by the Agent's Group of information (including Information) concerning the Borrower or its Affiliates (including information concerning the ability of the Borrower to perform its obligations hereunder and under the other Loan Documents) nor (iii) any other matter shall give rise to any fiduciary or equitable duties (including without limitation any duty of trust or confidence) owing by the Administrative Agent or any member of the Agent's Group to any Lender including any such duty that would prevent or restrict the Agent's Group from acting on behalf of customers (including the Borrower or its Affiliates) or for its own account.
 
Section 10.03.  .
Duties of Administrative Agent; Exculpatory Provisions
 
(a)        The Administrative Agent's duties hereunder and under the other Loan Documents are solely ministerial and administrative in nature and the Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein and in the other Loan Documents.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, but shall be required to act or refrain from acting (and shall be fully protected in so acting or refraining from acting) upon the written direction of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be expressly provided for herein or in the other Loan Documents), provided that the Administrative Agent shall not be required to take any action that, in its opinion or the opinion of its counsel, may expose the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates to liability or that is contrary to any Loan Document or applicable law.
 
(b)        The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it (i) with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary, or as the Administrative Agent shall believe in good faith shall be necessary, under the circumstances as provided in Sections 8.01 or 8.02) or (ii) in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed not to have knowledge of any Default or Unmatured Default or the event or events that give or may give rise to any Default or Unmatured Default unless and until the Borrower or any Lender shall have given written notice to the Administrative Agent describing such Default or Unmatured Default and such event or events.
 
(c)        Neither the Administrative Agent nor any member of the Agent's Group shall be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty, representation or other information made or supplied in or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or thereunder or in connection herewith or therewith or the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information contained therein, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein or therein or the occurrence of any Default or Unmatured Default, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness
or genuineness of this Agreement, any other Loan Document or any other agreement, instrument or document or the perfection or priority of any Lien or security interest created or purported to be created hereby or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article 4 or elsewhere herein, other than (but subject to the foregoing clause (ii)) to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
 
(d)        Nothing in this Agreement or any other Loan Document shall require the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties to carry out any "know your customer" or other checks in relation to any person on behalf of any Lender and each Lender confirms to the Administrative Agent that it is solely responsible for any such checks it is required to carry out and that it may not rely on any statement in relation to such checks made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Related Parties.
 
Section 10.04.  .  The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing (including any electronic message, Internet or intranet website posting or other distribution) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed, sent or otherwise authenticated by the proper Person.  The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to have been made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  In determining compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan that by its terms must be fulfilled to the satisfaction of a Lender, the Administrative Agent may presume that such condition is satisfactory to such Lender unless an officer of the Administrative Agent responsible for the transactions contemplated hereby shall have received notice to the contrary from such Lender prior to the making of such Loan, and such Lender shall not have made available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's ratable portion of such Advance.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for the Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
Reliance by Administrative Agent
 
Section 10.05.  .  The Administrative Agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers hereunder or under any other Loan Document by or through any one or more sub agents appointed by the Administrative Agent.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub agent may perform any and all of its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through their respective Related Parties.  Each such sub agent and the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and each such sub agent shall be entitled to the benefits of all provisions of this Article 10 and Section 9.06 (as though such sub-agents were the "Administrative Agent" under the Loan Documents) as if set forth in full herein with respect thereto.
Delegation of Duties
 
Section 10.06.  .  The Administrative Agent may at any time give notice of its resignation to the Lenders and the Borrower.  Upon receipt of any such notice of resignation, the Required Lenders shall have the right, with the consent of the
Resignation of Administrative Agent
Borrower unless a Default has occurred and is continuing (and otherwise in consultation with the Borrower)(that such consent of the Borrower shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed and shall be deemed to have been given if the Borrower has not responded within five Business Days of the Borrower's receipt of a written notice requesting such consent), to appoint a successor.  If no such successor shall have been so appointed by the Required Lenders and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation (such 30-day period, the ""), then the retiring Administrative Agent may on behalf of the Lenders, appoint a successor Administrative Agent meeting the qualifications set forth above.  In addition and without any obligation on the part of the retiring Administrative Agent to appoint, on behalf of the Lenders, a successor Administrative Agent, the retiring Administrative Agent may at any time upon or after the end of the Lender Appointment Period notify the Borrower and the Lenders that no qualifying Person has accepted appointment as successor Administrative Agent and the effective date of such retiring Administrative Agent's resignation.  Upon the resignation effective date established in such notice and regardless of whether a successor Administrative Agent has been appointed and accepted such appointment, the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation shall nonetheless become effective and (i) the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, (ii) all payments and communications provided to be made to or through the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by or to each Lender directly and (iii) all determinations to be made by the Administrative Agent shall instead be made by the Required Lenders, in each case, until such time as the Required Lenders appoint a successor Administrative Agent as provided for above in this paragraph.  Upon the acceptance of a successor's appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all of the rights, powers, privileges and duties as Administrative Agent of the retiring (or retired) Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from all of its duties and obligations as Administrative Agent hereunder or under the other Loan Documents (if not already discharged therefrom as provided above in this paragraph).  The fees payable by the Borrower to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Borrower and such successor.  After the retiring Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder and under the other Loan Documents, the provisions of this Article and Section 9.06 shall continue in effect for the benefit of such retiring Administrative Agent, its sub agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while the retiring Administrative Agent was acting as Administrative Agent.
provided
Lender Appointment Period
 
Section 10.07.  .
Non-Reliance on Administrative Agent and Other Lenders
 
(a)        Each Lender confirms to the Administrative Agent, each other Lender and each of their respective Related Parties that it (i) possesses (individually or through its Related Parties) such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters that it is capable, without reliance on the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, of evaluating the merits and risks (including tax, legal, regulatory, credit, accounting and other financial matters) (x) of entering into this Agreement, (y) of making Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder and under the other Loan Documents and (z) in taking or not taking actions
hereunder and thereunder, (ii) is financially able to bear such risks and (iii) has determined that entering into this Agreement and making Loans and other extensions of credit hereunder and under the other Loan Documents is suitable and appropriate for it.
 
(b)        Each Lender acknowledges that (i) it is solely responsible for making its own independent appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with this Agreement and the other Loan Documents, (ii) it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, made its own appraisal and investigation of all risks associated with, and its own credit analysis and decision to enter into, this Agreement based on such documents and information, as it has deemed appropriate and (iii) it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or any of their respective Related Parties, continue to be solely responsible for making its own appraisal and investigation of all risks arising under or in connection with, and its own credit analysis and decision to take or not take action under, this Agreement and the other Loan Documents based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, which may include, in each case:
 
(i)        the financial condition, status and capitalization of the Borrower;
 
(ii)       the legality, validity, effectiveness, adequacy or enforceability of this Agreement and each other Loan Document and any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with any Loan Document;
 
(iii)      determining compliance or non-compliance with any condition hereunder to the making of a Loan and the form and substance of all evidence delivered in connection with establishing the satisfaction of each such condition; and
 
(iv)     the adequacy, accuracy and/or completeness of the information delivered by the Administrative Agent, any other Lender or by any of their respective Related Parties under or in connection with this Agreement or any other Loan Document, the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby or any other agreement, arrangement or document entered into, made or executed in anticipation of, under or in connection with any Loan Document.
 
Section 10.08.    None of the Lenders (or Affiliates of Lenders) identified in this Agreement as the "Syndication Agent" or "Arrangers" or "Co-Arrangers" or "Co-Documentation Agents" shall have any right, power, obligation, liability, responsibility or duty under this Agreement in such identified capacity other than those (in the case of those who are Lenders) applicable to all Lenders as such.  Without limiting the foregoing, none of such Lenders (or Affiliates of Lenders) shall have or be deemed to have a fiduciary relationship with any Lender.  Each Lender hereby makes the same acknowledgments with respect to such Lenders (and such Affiliates) as it makes with respect to the Administrative Agent in Section 10.07.
No Other Duties, Etc.
Section 11.01In addition to, and without limitation of, any rights of the Lenders under applicable law, if the Borrower becomes insolvent, however evidenced, or any Default occurs, any and all deposits (including all account balances, whether provisional or final and whether or not collected or available) and any other Indebtedness at any time held or owing by any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender to or for the credit or account of the Borrower may be offset and applied toward the payment of the Obligations owing to such Lender, whether or not the Obligations, or any part thereof, shall then be due.
.  Setoff. 
 
Section 11.02If any Lender, whether by setoff or otherwise, has payment made to it upon its Outstanding Credit Exposure (other than payments received pursuant to Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.04, 3.05, 6.20 or 9.06) in a greater proportion than that received by any other Lender, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to purchase a portion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure held by the other Lenders so that after such purchase each Lender will hold its ratable proportion of the Aggregate Outstanding Credit Exposure.  If any Lender, whether in connection with setoff or amounts which might be subject to setoff or otherwise, receives collateral or other protection for its Obligations or such amounts which may be subject to setoff, such Lender agrees, promptly upon demand, to take such action necessary such that all Lenders share in the benefits of such collateral ratably in proportion to their respective Outstanding Credit Exposure.  In case any such payment is disturbed by legal process, or otherwise, appropriate further adjustments shall be made.
.  Ratable Payments. 
 
Section 12.01The terms and provisions of the Loan Documents shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Lenders and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby, except that (i) the Borrower shall not have the right to assign its rights or obligations under the Loan Documents, (ii) any assignment by any Lender must be made in compliance with Section 12.03 and (iii) any participation must be made in compliance with Section 12.02.  Any attempted assignment or transfer by any party not made in compliance with this Section 12.01 shall be null and void, unless such attempted assignment or transfer is treated as a participation in accordance with Section 12.03(b).  The parties to this Agreement acknowledge that clause (ii) of this Section 12.01 relates only to absolute assignments and this Section 12.01 does not prohibit assignments creating security interests, including, without limitation, (A) any pledge or assignment by any Lender of all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to secure obligations of such Lender, including to a Federal Reserve Bank, the European Central Bank or any other central bank to which such Lender reports ( that, no such pledge or assignment shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender party hereto) or (B) in the case of a Lender which is a Fund, any pledge or assignment of all or
.  Successors and Assigns. 
provided
any portion of its rights under this Agreement and any Note to its trustee in support of its obligations to its trustee; , , that no such pledge or assignment creating a security interest shall release the transferor Lender from its obligations hereunder unless and until the parties thereto have complied with the provisions of Section 12.03.  The Administrative Agent may treat the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note as the owner thereof for all purposes hereof unless and until such Person complies with Section 12.03; , , that the Administrative Agent may in its discretion (but shall not be required to) follow instructions from the Person which made any Loan or which holds any Note to direct payments relating to such Loan or Note to another Person.  Any assignee of the rights to any Loan or any Note agrees by acceptance of such assignment to be bound by all the terms and provisions of the Loan Documents.  Any request, authority or consent of any Person, who at the time of making such request or giving such authority or consent is the owner of the rights to any Loan (whether or not a Note has been issued in evidence thereof), shall be conclusive and binding on any subsequent holder or assignee of the rights to such Loan.
provided
however
provided
however
 
Section 12.02
.  Participations.
 
(a)        .  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time sell to one or more banks or other entities ("") participating interests in any Outstanding Credit Exposure of such Lender, any Note held by such Lender, any Commitment of such Lender or any other interest of such Lender under the Loan Documents.  In the event of any such sale by a Lender of participating interests to a Participant, such Lender's obligations under the Loan Documents shall remain unchanged, such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations, such Lender shall remain the owner of its Outstanding Credit Exposure and the holder of any Note issued to it in evidence thereof for all purposes under the Loan Documents, all amounts payable by the Borrower under this Agreement shall be determined as if such Lender had not sold such participating interests, and the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under the Loan Documents.
Permitted Participants; Effect
Participants
 
(b)        .  Each Lender shall retain the sole right to approve, without the consent of any Participant, any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of the Loan Documents other than any amendment, modification or waiver with respect to any Credit Extension or Commitment in which such Participant has an interest which would require consent of all of the affected Lenders pursuant to the terms of Section 8.02 or of any other Loan Document.
Voting Rights
 
(c)        .  The Borrower agrees that each Participant which has been identified as such to the Borrower in writing shall be deemed to have the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01 in respect of its participating interest in amounts owing under the Loan Documents to the same extent as if the amount of its participating interest were owing directly to it as a Lender under the Loan Documents; , that each Lender shall retain the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01 with respect to the amount of participating interests sold to each
Benefit of Certain Provisions
provided
Participant.  The Lenders agree to share with each Participant, and each Participant, by exercising the right of setoff provided in Section 11.01, agrees to share with each Lender, any amount received pursuant to the exercise of its right of setoff, such amounts to be shared in accordance with Section 11.02 as if each Participant were a Lender.  The Borrower further agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.01, 3.02 and 3.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to Section 12.03, that (i) a Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.05 than the Lender who sold the participating interest to such Participant would have received had it retained such interest for its own account, unless the sale of such interest to such Participant is made with the prior written consent of the Borrower, and (ii) any Participant complies with the provisions of Section 3.05 to the same extent as if it were a Lender.
provided
 
Section 12.03
.  Assignments.
 
(a)        .  Any Lender may, in the ordinary course of its business and in accordance with applicable law, at any time assign to one or more banks or other entities other than the Borrower or any of its Affiliates ("") all or any part of its rights and obligations under the Loan Documents.  Such assignment shall be substantially in the form of Exhibit C or in such other form as may be agreed to by the parties thereto.  The consent of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall be required prior to an assignment becoming effective with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender, an Affiliate thereof, an Approved Fund or a Permitted Assignee; , that with respect to assignments after the Closing Date, the consent of the Borrower shall not be required except with respect to any assignment to a competitor of the Borrower identified to the Arrangers prior to the date hereof.  Each such assignment with respect to a Purchaser which is not a Lender or an Affiliate thereof shall (unless each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent otherwise consents) be in an amount not less than the lesser of (i) $1,000,000 and in increments of $1,000,000 in excess thereof (with contemporaneous assignments to two or more Approved Funds being combined for the purpose of determining whether the minimum assignment requirement is met) or (ii) the remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment or Outstanding Credit Exposure (if the applicable Commitment has been terminated).  The amount of the assignment shall be based on the Commitment or Outstanding Credit Exposure (if the applicable Commitment has been terminated) subject to the assignment, determined as of the date of such assignment or as of the "Trade Date", if the "Trade Date" is specified in the assignment.
Permitted Assignments
Purchasers
provided
however,
 
(b)        . 
Effect; Effective Date
Upon (i) delivery (via an electronic settlement system acceptable to the Administrative Agent) to and acceptance by the Administrative Agent of an assignment, together with any consents required by
12.03(a),
(ii) payment of a $3,500 fee to the Administrative Agent for processing such assignment and (iii) if the assignee is not a Lender, delivery to the Administrative Agent by the assignee of an Administrative Questionnaire, such assignment shall become effective on the effective date specified in such assignment.
  On and after the effective date of such assignment, such Purchaser shall for all purposes be a Lender party to this Agreement and any other Loan Document executed by or on behalf of the Lenders and shall have all the rights and obligations of a Lender under the Loan Documents, to the same
extent as if it were an original party hereto, and no further consent or action by the Borrower, the Lenders or the Administrative Agent shall be required to release the transferor Lender with respect to the percentage of the Aggregate Commitment and Outstanding Credit Exposure assigned to such Purchaser.  In the case of an assignment covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a Lender hereunder but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of, and subject to, those provisions of this Agreement and the other Loan Documents which survive payment of the Obligations and termination of the applicable agreement.  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this Section 12.03 shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with Section 12.02.  Upon the consummation of any assignment to a Purchaser pursuant to this Section 12.03(b), the transferor Lender, the Administrative Agent and the Borrower shall, if the transferor Lender or the Purchaser desires that its Loans be evidenced by Notes, make appropriate arrangements so that new Notes or, as appropriate, replacement Notes are issued to such transferor Lender and new Notes or, as appropriate, replacement Notes, are issued to such Purchaser, in each case in principal amounts reflecting their respective Commitments, as adjusted pursuant to such assignment.
 
(c)        .  The Administrative Agent, acting solely for this purpose as an agent of the Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in New York, New York a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitments of, and principal amounts of the Loans owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the "").  The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The Register shall be available for inspection by the Borrower and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
Register
Register
 
Section 12.04The Borrower authorizes each Lender to disclose to any Participant or Purchaser or any other Person acquiring an interest in the Loan Documents by operation of law (each a "") and any prospective Transferee any and all information in such Lender's possession concerning the creditworthiness of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries; that each Transferee and prospective Transferee agrees to be bound by Section 9.11 of this Agreement.
.  Dissemination of Information. 
Transferee
provided
 
Section 12.05If any interest in any Loan Document is transferred to any Transferee which is not organized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof, the transferor Lender shall cause such Transferee, concurrently with the effectiveness of such transfer, to comply with the provisions of Section 3.05(d).
.  Tax Treatment. 
Section 13.01Except as otherwise permitted by Section 2.15 with respect to borrowing notices, all notices, requests and other communications to any party hereunder shall be in writing (including electronic transmission, facsimile transmission or similar writing) and shall be given to such party: (a) in the case of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, at its address or facsimile number set forth on the signature pages hereof, (b) in the case of any Lender, at its address or facsimile number set forth below its signature hereto or (c) in the case of any party, at such other address or facsimile number as such party may hereafter specify for the purpose by notice to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of this Section 13.01.  Each such notice, request or other communication shall be effective (i) if given by facsimile transmission, when transmitted to the facsimile number specified in this Section and confirmation of receipt is received, (ii) if given by mail, 72 hours after such communication is deposited in the mails with first class postage prepaid, addressed as aforesaid, or (iii) if given by any other means, when delivered (or, in the case of electronic transmission, received or confirmed by email) at the address specified in this Section; that notices to the Administrative Agent under Article 2 shall not be effective until received. Except as set forth below, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section, the Borrower shall furnish the materials described in Sections 6.01(a), 6.01(b), 6.01(h) and 6.01(i) by email or by posting such materials on an internet web site made available to the Lenders or as otherwise specified to the Borrower by the Administrative Agent.
.  Giving Notice. 
provided
 
So long as Credit Suisse AG or any of its Affiliates is the Administrative Agent, materials required to be delivered pursuant to Sections 6.01(a), 6.01(b), 6.01(h) and 6.01(i) shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by fax or email to the Administrative Agent as follows: Credit Suisse, Attention of: Sean Portrait, Eleven Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, Fax No. 212-322-2291, Email:  agency.loanops@credit-suisse.com.  The Borrower agrees that the Administrative Agent may make such materials, as well as any other written information, documents, instruments and other materials relating to the Borrower, any of its Subsidiaries or any other materials or matters relating to this Agreement, the Notes or any of the transactions contemplated hereby (collectively, the "") available to the Lenders by posting such materials on Intralinks or a substantially similar electronic system (the "").  The Borrower acknowledges that (i) the distribution of material through an electronic medium is not necessarily secure and that there are confidentiality and other risks associated with such distribution, (ii) the Platform is provided "as is" and "as available" and (iii) neither the Administrative Agent nor any of its Affiliates warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the Communications or the Platform and each expressly disclaims liability for errors or omissions in the Communications or the Platform.  No warranty of any kind, express, implied or statutory, including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement of third party rights or freedom from viruses or other code defects, is made by the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in connection with the Platform.
Communications
Platform
 
Each Lender agrees that notice to it (as provided in the next sentence) (a "") specifying that any Communications have been posted to the Platform shall constitute effective delivery of such information, documents or other materials to such Lender for purposes of this Agreement; that if requested by any Lender, the Administrative Agent shall deliver a copy of the Communications to such Lender by email or telecopier.  Each Lender agrees (i) to notify the Administrative Agent in writing of such Lender's e-mail address to which a Notice may be sent by electronic transmission (including by electronic communication) on or before the date such Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (and from time to time thereafter to ensure that the Administrative Agent has on record an effective e-mail address for such Lender) and (ii) that any Notice may be sent to such e-mail address.
Notice
provided
 
Section 13.02The Borrower, the Administrative Agent and any Lender may each change the address for service of notice upon it by a notice in writing to the other parties hereto.
.  Change of Address. 
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, all of which taken together shall constitute one agreement, and any of the parties hereto may execute this Agreement by signing any such counterpart.  This Agreement shall be effective when it has been executed by the Borrower, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and each party has notified the Administrative Agent by facsimile transmission or telephone that it has taken such action and the other conditions precedent in Section 4.01 have been satisfied.
 
Section 15.01THE LOAN DOCUMENTS (OTHER THAN THOSE CONTAINING A CONTRARY EXPRESS CHOICE OF LAW PROVISION) SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK; , however, that the interpretation of the definitions of "Borrower Material Adverse Change" and "Company Material Adverse Change" for purposes of the Loan Documents shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware, regardless of the laws that might otherwise govern under applicable principles of conflicts of laws.
.  CHOICE OF LAW. 
provided
Section 15.02THE BORROWER HEREBY IRREVOCABLY SUBMITS TO THE EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF ANY UNITED STATES FEDERAL OR NEW YORK STATE COURT SITTING IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO ANY LOAN DOCUMENTS AND THE BORROWER HEREBY (TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW) IRREVOCABLY AGREES THAT ALL CLAIMS IN RESPECT OF
.  CONSENT TO JURISDICTION. 
 
SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE HEARD AND DETERMINED IN ANY SUCH COURT AND IRREVOCABLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION IT MAY NOW OR HEREAFTER HAVE AS TO THE VENUE OF ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN SUCH A COURT OR THAT SUCH COURT IS AN INCONVENIENT FORUM.  NOTHING HEREIN SHALL LIMIT THE RIGHT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER TO BRING PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THE BORROWER IN THE COURTS OF ANY OTHER JURISDICTION.  ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING BY THE BORROWER AGAINST THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER OR ANY AFFILIATE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT OR ANY LENDER INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT SHALL BE BROUGHT ONLY IN A COURT IN NEW YORK, NEW YORK.
 
Section 15.03THE BORROWER, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND EACH LENDER HEREBY WAIVE TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY JUDICIAL PROCEEDING INVOLVING, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, ANY MATTER (WHETHER SOUNDING IN TORT, CONTRACT OR OTHERWISE) IN ANY WAY ARISING OUT OF, RELATED TO, OR CONNECTED WITH ANY LOAN DOCUMENT OR THE RELATIONSHIP ESTABLISHED THEREUNDER.
.  WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Borrower, the Lenders and the Administrative Agent have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Applicable Margin shall be determined in accordance with the foregoing table based on the Borrower Debt Ratings from time to time.  The Borrower Debt Rating in effect on any date for the purposes of this Schedule is that in effect at the close of business on such date.  If at any time there is no Borrower Debt Rating from Moody's or S&P, Level V shall apply.
 
For purposes of this Pricing Schedule:
 
"" means a rate per annum equal to the arithmetic average determined by the Administrative Agent on the second Business Day prior to the 90th day after the Closing Date, and reset on the second Business Day prior to the date that is 30 days after the date on which the previous CDS Margin was set (each such date, a "") of the rates obtained by
CDS Margin
Determination Date
 
(1)  In the event of a split rating, the applicable rating shall be deemed to be the higher of the two ratings; , if the difference between the two ratings is greater than one sub-grade, the applicable rating shall be deemed to be one sub-grade below the higher of the two ratings.
provided
the Administrative Agent from the CDS Data for the 30 Business Days immediately preceding such Determination Date; that the CDS Margin shall in no event be less than the CDS Margin Floor or greater than the CDS Margin Cap.  If the Administrative Agent is unable to obtain the CDS Data for any Determination Date, the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the Borrower and each Lender as soon as practicable thereafter.  In such event, the Borrower and the Administrative Agent shall use commercially reasonable efforts to promptly agree on an alternative source of data and/or calculation methodology to determine the CDS Margin, which alternative source and/or methodology must be reasonably acceptable to the Required Lenders.  If no such alternative source of data and/or methodology is agreed within 30 days after such Determination Date, the CDS Margin shall be equal to the midpoint between the CDS Margin Floor and the CDS Margin Cap for such Determination Date, unless and until the CDS Margin can be determined in accordance with this definition.
provided
 
"" means, with respect to any date, the trailing 30-day average of the composite end of day credit default swap spread for the five year point on the trading convention credit default curve that is the most liquid and/or widely followed credit default swap curve for the Borrower's senior unsecured obligations for the immediately preceding 30 Business Days, as determined by the Administrative Agent.
CDS Data
 
"" means, (i) in the case of Level I pricing, 2.00% and (ii) in the case of Level II, Level III, Level IV or Level V pricing, 2.25%.
CDS Margin Floor
 
"" means, (i) in the case of Level I pricing, 4.50% and (ii) in the case of Level II, Level III, Level IV or Level V pricing, 5.00%.
CDS Margin Cap
 
SCHEDULE 1.01
 
 
SCHEDULE 4.02(g)
1.
              
The Existing Credit Agreement in an aggregate committed amount up to $400,000,000.
 
2.
              
The Euro Facility in an aggregate committed amount up to 850,000,000.
 
3.
              
7.375% Senior Notes due 2012 issued by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $225,000,000.
 
4.
              
5.05% Senior Unsecured Debentures due 2011 issued by Aon Finance N.S. 1, ULC and guaranteed by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $375,000,000.
 
5.
              
8.205% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures Due January 2027 issued by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $686,995,000.
 
6.
              
6.25% Guaranteed Notes due July 2014 issued by Aon Financial Services Luxembourg S.A. and guaranteed by Aon Corporation, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 500,000,000.
 
7.
              
Class A1 Senior Floating Rate Notes due 2011 issued by Private Equity Partnership Structures I LLC (PEPS), in an aggregate principal amount of up to $47,000,000.
 
8.
              
Loan Agreement, dated as of June 2009, among Accuracy SAS and BNP Paribas, as lender, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 1,500,000.
 
9.
              
Credit Agreement, dated as of October 9, 2009, among Hewitt Associates L.L.C., as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as a guarantor, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, providing for a $250,000,000 revolving loan facility.
 
10.
        
Loan Agreement, dated as of August 8, 2008, among Hewitt Associates L.L.C., as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as a guarantor, the lenders from time to time party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, in an aggregate principal amount of up to $270,000,000.
 
11.
        
Term Loan Credit Facility Agreement, dated as of March 2008, among Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited, as borrower, Hewitt Associates, Inc., as guarantor, and Barclays Bank plc, as lender, in an aggregate principal amount of up to 23,750,000.
 
12.
        
8.08% Senior Notes, Series A, Tranche 2 due March 30, 2012 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $14,000,000.
 
13.
        
7.90% Senior Notes, Series E, due October 15, 2010 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $15,000,000.
 
14.
        
6.57% Series F Senior Notes due August 21, 2015 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C. and guarantied by Hewitt Associates, Inc., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $175,000,000.
 
15.
        
6.98% Series G Senior Notes due August 21, 2018 issued by Hewitt Associates L.L.C. and guarantied by Hewitt Associates, Inc., in an aggregate principal amount of up to $55,000,000.
 
SCHEDULE 5.21
As disclosed in the Borrower's periodic filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), following inquiries from regulators, Borrower commenced an internal review of its compliance with certain U.S. and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. In January 2009, Aon Limited, Borrower's principal U.K. brokerage subsidiary, entered into a settlement agreement with the FSA to pay a 5.25 million fine arising from its failure to exercise reasonable care to establish and maintain effective systems and controls to counter the risks of bribery arising from the use of overseas firms and individuals who helped it win business. The SEC and the Department of Justice ("DOJ") continue to investigate these matters. Borrower is fully cooperating with these investigations and has agreed with the U.S. agencies to toll any applicable statute of limitations pending completion of the investigations. Based on current information, Borrower is unable to predict at this time when the SEC and DOJ matters will be concluded, or what regulatory or other outcomes may result.
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the ""), promises to pay to the order of                  (the "") the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Loans made by the Lender to the Borrower pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement (as hereinafter defined), in immediately available funds at the main office of Credit Suisse AG in New York, New York, as Administrative Agent, together with interest on the unpaid principal amount hereof at the rates and on the dates set forth in the Agreement.  The Borrower shall pay the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest on the Loans in full on the Maturity Date and shall make such mandatory payments as are required to be made under the terms of Article 2 of the Agreement.
Borrower
Lender
 
The Lender shall, and is hereby authorized to, record on the schedule attached hereto, or to otherwise record in accordance with its usual practice, the date and amount of each Loan and the date and amount of each principal payment hereunder.
 
This Note is one of the Notes issued pursuant to, and is entitled to the benefits of, the Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of [], 2010 (which, as it may be amended, amended and restated, supplemented or otherwise modified and in effect from time to time, is herein called the ""), among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto, including the Lender, and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent, to which Agreement reference is hereby made for a statement of the terms and conditions governing this Note, including the terms and conditions under which this Note may be prepaid or its maturity date accelerated.  Capitalized terms used herein and not otherwise defined herein are used with the meanings attributed to them in the Agreement.
Agreement
 
 
 
EXHIBIT B
To: The Lenders parties to the Credit Agreement Described Below
 
This Compliance Certificate is furnished pursuant to that certain Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement dated as of [], 2010 (as amended, modified, renewed or extended from time to time, the "Agreement") among the Borrower, the lenders party thereto and Credit Suisse AG, as Administrative Agent for the Lenders.  Unless otherwise defined herein, capitalized terms used in this Compliance Certificate have the meanings ascribed thereto in the Agreement.
 
THE UNDERSIGNED HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT:
 
1.     I am the duly elected [          ] of the Borrower;
 
2.     I have reviewed the terms of the Agreement and I have made, or have caused to be made under my supervision, a detailed review of the transactions and conditions of the Borrower and its Subsidiaries during the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements;
 
3.     The examinations described in paragraph 2 did not disclose, and I have no knowledge of, the existence of any condition or event which constitutes a Default or Unmatured Default during or at the end of the accounting period covered by the attached financial statements or as of the date of this Compliance Certificate, except as set forth below; and
 
4.     Schedule I attached hereto sets forth financial data and computations evidencing the Borrower's compliance with certain covenants of the Agreement, all of which data and computations are true, complete and correct.
 
Described below are the exceptions, if any, to paragraph 3 by listing, in detail, the nature of the condition or event, the period during which it has existed and the action which the Borrower has taken, is taking, or proposes to take with respect to each such condition or event:
 
The foregoing certifications, together with the computations set forth in Schedule I hereto and the financial statements delivered with this Compliance Certificate in support hereof, are made and delivered this day of                   , 20   .
Schedule of Compliance as of                  , 20    with Provisions of Section 6.17 of the Agreement
 
1.     Section 6.17(a) - Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA to Consolidated Interest Expense
 
A.    Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (for four fiscal quarters ended                  , 20    )
 
B.     Consolidated Interest Expense (for four fiscal quarters ended               , 20   ) $              
 
C.     Ratio of A to B to 1.0
 
D.    Permitted Ratio Greater than 4.0 to 1.0 Complies / Does Not Comply
 
2.     Section 6.17(b) - Consolidated Leverage Ratio
 
A.    Consolidated Funded Debt (as of              , 20   ) $               
 
B.     Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA (for four fiscal quarters ended               , 20   )
C.    Ratio of A to B to 1.0
 
D.    Permitted Ratio Less than 3.0 to 1.0 Complies / Does Not Comply
 
EXHIBIT C
This Assignment and Assumption Agreement (the "") is dated as of the Effective Date set forth below and is entered into by and between [] (the "") and [] (the ""). Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Credit Agreement identified below (as amended, the ""), receipt of a copy of which is hereby acknowledged by the Assignee. The Standard Terms and Conditions set forth in Annex 1 attached hereto are hereby agreed to and incorporated herein by reference and made a part of this Assignment as if set forth herein in full.
Assignment
Insert name of Assignor
Assignor
Insert name of Assignee
Assignee
Credit Agreement
 
For an agreed consideration, the Assignor hereby irrevocably sells and assigns to the Assignee, and the Assignee hereby irrevocably purchases and assumes from the Assignor, subject to and in accordance with the Standard Terms and Conditions and the Credit Agreement, as of the Effective Date inserted by Administrative Agent as contemplated below, the interest in and to all of the Assignor's rights and obligations under the Credit Agreement and any other documents or instruments delivered pursuant thereto that represents the amount and percentage interest identified below of all of the Assignor's outstanding rights and obligations under the respective facilities identified below (including, to the extent included in any such facilities, letters of credit and swingline loans) (the ""). Such sale and assignment is without recourse to the Assignor and, except as expressly provided in this Assignment, without representation or warranty by the Assignor.
Assigned Interest
 
(2)           Select as applicable.
 
 
Effective Date:                  , 20    [TO BE INSERTED BY ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND WHICH SHALL BE THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF RECORDATION OF TRANSFER IN THE REGISTER THEREFOR.]
 
The terms set forth in this Assignment are hereby agreed to:
 
 
Set forth, to at least 9 decimals, as a percentage of the Commitment/Loans of all Lenders thereunder.
 
ANNEX 1
 
1.             .
Representations and Warranties
 
1.1           . The Assignor (a) represents and warrants that (i) it is the legal and beneficial owner of the Assigned Interest, (ii) the Assigned Interest is free and clear of any lien, encumbrance or other adverse claim and (iii) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby; and (b) assumes no responsibility with respect to (i) any statements, warranties or representations made in or in connection with any Loan Document, (ii) the execution, legality, validity, enforceability, genuineness, sufficiency or value of the Credit Agreement or any other instrument or document delivered pursuant thereto, other than this Assignment (herein collectively the ""), or any collateral thereunder, (iii) the financial condition of Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person obligated in respect of any Loan Document or (iv) the performance or observance by Company, any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates or any other Person of any of their respective obligations under any Loan Document.
Assignor
Loan Documents
 
1.2           . The Assignee (a) represents and warrants that (i) it has full power and authority, and has taken all action necessary, to execute and deliver this Assignment and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby and to become a Lender under the Credit Agreement, (ii) it meets all requirements if any, under the Credit Agreement that are required to be satisfied by it in order to acquire the Assigned Interest and become a Lender, (iii) from and after the Effective Date, it shall be bound by the provisions of the Credit Agreement and, to the extent of the Assigned Interest, shall have the obligations of a Lender thereunder, (iv) it has received a copy of the Credit Agreement, together with copies of the most recent financial statements delivered pursuant to Section 6.1 thereof, as applicable, and such other documents and information as it has deemed appropriate to make its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Assignment and to purchase the Assigned Interest on the basis of which it has made such analysis and decision, and (v) if it is a Non-US Lender, attached to the Assignment is any documentation required to be delivered by it pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement, duly completed and executed by the Assignee; and (b) agrees that (i) it will, independently and without reliance on Administrative Agent, the Assignor or any other Lender, and based on such documents and information as it shall deem appropriate at the time, continue to make its own credit decisions in taking or not taking action under the Loan Documents, and (ii) it will perform in accordance with their terms all of the obligations which by the terms of the Loan Documents are required to be performed by it as a Lender.
Assignee
2.             . From and after the Effective Date, Administrative Agent shall make all payments in respect of the Assigned Interest (including payments of principal, interest, fees and other amounts) to the Assignor for amounts which have accrued to but excluding the Effective Date and to the Assignee for amounts which have accrued from and after the Effective Date.
Payments
 
3.             . This Assignment shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns. This Assignment may be executed in any number of counterparts, which together shall constitute one instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Assignment by telecopy shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Assignment. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
General Provisions

Exhibit 10.3
 
EXECUTION COPY
 
Dated as of August 13, 2010
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE CREDIT AGREEMENT
among AON CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation (the ""), the banks, financial institutions and other institutional lenders parties to the Credit Agreement referred to below (collectively, the "") and CITIBANK, N.A., as administrative agent (the "") for the Lenders.
Borrower
Lenders
Administrative Agent
 
PRELIMINARY STATEMENTS:
 
1.             The Lenders have agreed to extend credit to the Borrower under the Credit Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein; and
 
2.             The Borrower has requested that the Lenders amend certain provisions of the Credit Agreement, and the Lenders whose signatures appear below, constituting at least the Required Lenders, are willing to amend the Credit Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
SECTION 1.    Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein (including in the recitals hereto) have the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.
Defined Terms.
 
SECTION 2.    (a) Section 1.1 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
Amendments to the Credit Agreement.
 
(i)            The definition of "Cananwill Securitization" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
""" means each of (i) the Second Amended and Restated Purchase Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2001, by and among Cananwill Premium Credit Trust, Cananwill Corporation, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as Administrative Agent, (ii) the Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 11, 2002, by and among Cananwill Canada Limited, the Borrower and CIBC Mellon Trust Company, in its capacity as Trustee of Plaza Trust, (iii) the Amended and Restated Receivables Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 19, 2002, by and among Cananwill Receivables Purchase Facility, L.L.C., Cananwill Europe Limited, the Borrower, the Purchasers and Managing Agents listed on the signature pages thereto and JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. (successor by merger to Bank One, NA), as administrative agent and (iv) the Receivables
Cananwill Securitization
Facilities Agreement, dated as of December 20, 2001, by and among Abel Tasman Holdings Pty Limited, Cananwill Australia Pty Limited, Cananwill, Inc. and ABN AMRO Asset Management (Australia) Limited, in each case as the same may be modified, amended or supplemented from time to time, provided that such modification, amendment or supplement does not change the fundamental nature thereof."
 
(ii)           The definition of "Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
""" means, for any Measurement Period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus, (a) to the extent deducted from revenues in determining Consolidated Net Income, (i) Consolidated Interest Expense, (ii) expense for taxes paid or accrued, (iii) depreciation, (iv) amortization, (v) extraordinary losses incurred other than in the ordinary course of business, (vi) the Transaction Costs and (vii) non recurring cash charges incurred for such period in connection with the Merger in an amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in the aggregate during the term of this Agreement (b) to the extent included in Consolidated Net Income, extraordinary gains realized other than in the ordinary course of business, all calculated for the Borrower and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; that, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this definition, no amounts shall be added pursuant to clauses (i) through (v) for any losses, costs, expenses or other charges resulting from the settlement of any Disclosed Claims or any payments in respect of any judgments or other orders thereon or any restructuring or other charges in connection therewith or relating thereto."
Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA
minus
provided
 
(iii)         
The definition of "Consolidated Leverage Ratio" is hereby amended to add the following proviso at the end thereof: "
; that in the event that the Senior Notes are issued prior to the Term Loan Closing Date and the proceeds thereof are held in escrow pursuant to arrangements reasonably satisfactory to the administrative agent under the Term Loan Agreement, the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes for the purpose of determining the Consolidated Leverage Ratio at any time prior to the Term Loan Closing Date shall be deemed to be the excess (if any) of the outstanding principal amount of the Senior Notes over the escrowed proceeds thereof".
provided
 
(iv)          The definition of "Euro Facility" is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
""" means the 650,000,000 Facility Agreement dated as of February 7, 2005 by and among the Borrower, the Subsidiaries of the Borrower party thereto, Citibank International plc, as agent, and the financial institutions parties thereto as lenders, as the same may be supplemented, modified and amended from time to time, that, in each case, the principal amount of the credit committed thereunder is not increased without the consent of the Required Lenders except as contemplated by Section 6.19(b)."
Euro Facility
provided
(v)           The definition of "Reportable Event" is hereby amended to insert immediately following the reference to "Section 412" the following: "or 430".
 
(vi)          The following new defined terms are hereby inserted in the appropriate alphabetical order:
 
"" means the Senior Bridge Term Loan Credit Agreement dated on or about the First Amendment Effective Date among the Borrower, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, and the lenders and agents party thereto as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time to the extent permitted hereunder.
Bridge Credit Agreement
 
"Bridge Loans
" means the "Loans" as defined in the Bridge Credit Agreement.
 
"" means Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
Company
 
"" means Section 1471 through 1474 of the Code, as in effect on the First Amendment Effective Date, and any applicable Treasury regulations or published administrative guidance promulgated thereunder.
FATCA
 
"" means August 13, 2010.
First Amendment Effective Date
 
"" means the merger of Merger Sub with and into the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger
 
"" means the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated July 11, 2010 among the Borrower, Merger LLC, Merger Sub and the Company.
Merger Agreement
 
"" means an aggregate amount of approximately $2,450,000,000 in cash to be paid to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Cash Consideration
 
"" means the Merger Cash Consideration and the Merger Equity Consideration.
Merger Consideration
 
"" means the shares of common stock of the Borrower to be delivered to the equity holders of the Company pursuant to the Merger Agreement.
Merger Equity Consideration
 
"" means Alps Merger LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger LLC
 
"" means Alps Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Borrower.
Merger Sub
"" means the up to $1,500,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of senior unsecured notes of the Borrower issued in a public offering or in a Rule 144A or other private placement.
Senior Notes
 
"" the merger of the surviving corporation in the Merger with and into Merger LLC, with Merger LLC surviving as a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Borrower.
Subsequent Merger
 
"" means the Three-Year Term Credit Agreement dated on or about the First Amendment Effective Date among the Borrower, Credit Suisse AG, as administrative agent, and the lenders and agents party thereto as it may be amended or modified and in effect from time to time to the extent permitted hereunder.
Term Loan Agreement
 
"" means the "Closing Date" as defined in the Term Loan Agreement.
Term Loan Closing Date
 
"" means (i) the Merger and the Subsequent Merger, including the payment of the Merger Consideration, (iii) the execution, delivery and performance of the Term Loan Agreement, (iv) the execution, delivery and performance of the Bridge Credit Agreement, (v) the issuance of the Senior Notes, and, to the extent the Borrower is unable to issue the Senior Notes on or prior to the date the Merger is consummated, the funding of the Bridge Loans and the application of the proceeds thereof and (vi) payment of the Transaction Costs.
Transactions
 
"" means fees and expenses in an aggregate amount not to exceed $50,000,000 in connection with the Transactions.
Transactions Costs
 
(b)           Clause (a)(iv) of Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to insert immediately following the words "evidencing payment thereof" the following: ", or other evidence reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent,".
 
(c)           Clause (d) of Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"(d)         Each Lender that is not incorporated or otherwise organized under the laws of the United States of America or a state thereof (each a "") agrees that it will, not more than ten (10) Business Days after the date of this Agreement (or, in the case of a Lender who becomes a party hereto after the date of this Agreement, the date it becomes a party hereto), deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent two duly completed copies of United States Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN or W-8ECI or W-8IMY (and any required attachments), certifying in either case that such Lender is entitled to receive payments under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes.  Each Non-U.S. Lender further undertakes, to the extent lawful at such time, to deliver to each of the Borrower and the Administrative Agent (i) renewals or additional copies of such form (or any successor form) on or before the date that such form expires or becomes obsolete,
Non-U.S. Lender
and (ii) after the occurrence of any event requiring a change in the most recent forms so delivered by it, such additional forms or amendments thereto as may be reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent.  In addition, each Non-US Lender shall deliver to the Administrative Agent and the Borrower any documents as shall be prescribed by applicable law or otherwise reasonably requested to demonstrate that payments to such Lender under this Agreement and the other Loan Documents are exempt from any United States federal withholding tax imposed pursuant to FATCA.  All forms or amendments described in the preceding two sentences shall certify that such Lender is entitled to receive payments of interest under this Agreement without deduction or withholding of any United States federal income taxes, unless an event (including without limitation any change in treaty, law or regulation) has occurred after the date it became a Lender hereunder and prior to the date on which any such delivery would otherwise be required which renders all such forms inapplicable or which would prevent such Lender from duly completing and delivering any such form or amendment with respect to it and such Lender advises the Borrower and the Administrative Agent that it is not capable of receiving payments of interest without any deduction or withholding of United States federal income tax.  For purposes of this Section 3.5(d), each change of a Lender's Lending Installation in accordance with Section 2.17 shall be treated as though such Lending Installation became a party hereto on the date of such change of Lending Installation."
 
(d)           Clause (e) of Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to insert immediately following the word "form" in each instance where it appears the following: "or other document".
 
(e)           Section 3.5 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to add the following clause (h) as the last clause thereof:
 
"(h)         Each Lender that is not a Non-U.S. Lender shall deliver to the Borrower and the Administrative Agent, in the case of any Lender that becomes a party hereto after the First Amendment Effective Date, on or prior to the date on which such Lender becomes a Lender under this Agreement, and in the case of each Lender, from time to time upon the request of the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, executed originals of Internal Revenue Service Form W-9 or such other documentation or information prescribed by applicable laws or reasonably requested by the Borrower or the Administrative Agent as will enable the Borrower or the Administrative Agent, as the case may be, to determine whether or not such Lender is subject to backup withholding or information reporting requirements."
 
(f)            The second sentence of Section 5.3 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended (i) to delete the words "execution and delivery" and to substitute the phrase "execution, delivery and performance" therefor and (ii) to delete the words "or any other transaction contemplated in the Loan Documents".
(g)           The first sentence of Section 5.4 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended (i) to delete the "," immediately following the reference therein to "any of the Loan Documents" and to substitute the word "or" therefor and (ii) to delete the words "or any other transactions contemplated in the Loan Documents".
 
(h)           The first sentence of Section 5.14 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the phrase "or which restricts or imposes conditions on the ability of any Subsidiary to (a) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock, (b) make loans or advances to the Borrower or (c) repay loans or advances from the Borrower".
 
(i)            Clause (e) of Section 6.1(e) of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to insert the following proviso at the end thereof:
 
"; that no such notice shall be required to be given unless such Termination Event could reasonably be expected to result in liabilities of the Borrower in excess of $25,000,000."
provided
 
(j)            Clause (a)(i) of Section 6.4 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to insert immediately following the words "as now conducted by the Borrower and its Subsidiaries" the following: "or the Company and its Subsidiaries".
 
(k)           Section 6.15 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"Section 6.15The Borrower shall not, nor shall it permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement which, directly or indirectly prohibits, or has the effect of prohibiting, or imposes materially adverse conditions upon, the ability of any Subsidiary to (i) pay dividends or make other distributions on its capital stock to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, (ii) make loans or advances to the Borrower or any other Subsidiary or (iii) repay loans or advances from the Borrower or any other Subsidiary, except (A) restrictions and limitations imposed by Law or by the Loan Documents, (B) customary restrictions and limitations contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary or its assets that is permitted hereunder, (C) restrictions and conditions imposed by agreements relating to Indebtedness of any Subsidiary in existence at the time such Subsidiary becomes a Subsidiary not created in contemplation of or in connection with such Subsidiary becoming a Subsidiary (or any refinancing or amendment thereof that does not result in a materially more restrictive restriction or condition); that such restrictions and conditions apply only to such Subsidiary and its respective Subsidiaries, (D) in the case of any Subsidiary that is not a wholly-owned Subsidiary, customary restrictions and conditions imposed by its organizational documents or any joint venture or similar agreement, (E) solely for the first 60 days following the Term Loan Closing Date, restrictions set forth in any indenture, agreement, instrument or other arrangement to which the Company or any of its Subsidiaries is party as of the First Amendment Effective Date and (F)
         Restrictive Agreements. 
provided
any other restrictions that could not reasonably be expected to impair the Borrower's ability to repay the Obligations as and when due."
 
(l)            Clause (c) of Section 6.16 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows: "(c)  [Reserved];".
 
(m)          Clause (f) of Section 6.16 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the word "consolidated" in each instance where it appears and substitute therefor the word "Consolidated".
 
(n)           Clause (b) of Section 6.19 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
 
"(b)         Indebtedness under the Euro Facility, and any renewal and refinancing thereof, provided (i) that the committed amount thereof is not increased to an aggregate amount greater than 850,000,000 and (ii) no other Subsidiary (other than a Subsidiary that becomes a borrower thereunder) becomes obligated in respect thereof;"
 
(o)           Clause (e) of Section 6.19 of the Credit Agreement is hereby amended to delete the "," immediately following the words "any renewal and refinancing thereof" and to substitute therefor the following: "(including any other Subsidiary becoming a primary obligor in respect thereof);".
 
SECTION 3.    The Borrower hereby represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and to each of the Lenders, as of the date hereof (as defined below), that:
Representations and Warranties.
 
(a)  The execution, delivery and performance by the Borrower of this Amendment have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or other organizational and, if required, stockholder or other equityholder action.  This Amendment has been duly executed and delivered by the Borrower and this Amendment and the Credit Agreement, as amended by this Amendment, constitute legal, valid and binding obligations of the Borrower, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
 
(b)  The representations and warranties of the Borrower set forth in the Credit Agreement, after giving effect to this Amendment, and the other Loan Documents are true and correct on and as of the date hereof, except in the case of any such representation or warranty that expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case such representation or warranty is true and correct in all material respects on and as of such earlier date.
 
(c)  On and as of the date hereof, after giving effect to this Amendment, no Default has occurred and is continuing.
SECTION 4.    This Amendment shall become effective as of the date hereof so long as the Administrative Agent shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the authorized signatures of the Borrower and Lenders constituting at least the Required Lenders.
Effectiveness.
 
SECTION 5.    (a)  Except as expressly set forth herein, this Amendment shall not by implication or otherwise limit, impair, constitute a waiver of or otherwise affect the rights and remedies of the Lenders or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, and shall not alter, modify, amend or in any way affect any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document, all of which are ratified and affirmed in all respects and shall continue in full force and effect.  Nothing herein shall be deemed to entitle the Borrower to a consent to, or a waiver, amendment, modification or other change of, any of the terms, conditions, obligations, covenants or agreements contained in the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document in similar or different circumstances.
Effect of Amendment.
 
(b)           On and after the date hereof, each reference in the Credit Agreement to "this Agreement", "hereunder", "hereof", "herein", or words of like import, and each reference to the Credit Agreement in any other Loan Document shall be deemed to be a reference to the Credit Agreement as amended hereby.  This Amendment shall constitute a "Loan Document" for all purposes of the Credit Agreement and the other Loan Documents.
 
SECTION 6. 
Applicable Law.
  THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
SECTION 7.    This Amendment may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original but all of which, when taken together, shall constitute a single contract.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by facsimile or other electronic imaging shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.
Counterparts.
 
SECTION 8.    Any provision of this Amendment held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability.
 
SECTION 9.    The Section headings used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Amendment and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Amendment.
Headings.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


