FILE:AON/AON-8K-20100920165304.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.07.
                                         
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
A special meeting of stockholders of Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("Aon") was held on September 20, 2010 (the "Special Meeting"). The Special Meeting was held in order to vote upon the following proposals set forth in a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") on August 17, 2010: (i) to approve the issuance of shares of Aon common stock (the "Share Issuance") to the stockholders of Hewitt Associates, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Hewitt"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 11, 2010, among Aon, Alps Merger Corp., a Delaware corporation, Alps Merger LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and Hewitt, and (ii) to adjourn the Special Meeting, if necessary, to solicit additional proxies in the event that there were not sufficient votes at the time of the Special Meeting to approve the Share Issuance.
 
At the Special Meeting, the proposal to approve the Share Issuance was approved by the requisite vote of Aon's stockholders. The vote to approve the adjournment of the Special Meeting was not required. Set forth below is the number of votes cast for and against, as well as the number of abstentions and broker non-votes, as to the proposal to approve the Share Issuance.
 
Proposal: Approval of the Share Issuance
 
 
Item 8.01.              Other Events.
 
Hewitt Stockholder Approval
 
In connection with the Special Meeting disclosed under Item 5.07 of this Form 8-K, on September 20, 2010, Aon issued a press release announcing that (i) at the Special Meeting, Aon's stockholders approved the Share Issuance and (ii) at the special meeting of the stockholders of Hewitt held on September 20, 2010, Hewitt's stockholders voted to approve a proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement.
 
The closing of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement remains subject to the fulfillment or waiver of certain closing conditions that have not yet been satisfied, including the receipt of certain approvals by foreign governmental entities and other customary closing conditions.
 
A copy of the press release issued by Aon announcing the approval of the Share Issuance by Aon's stockholders and the approval of the proposal to adopt the Merger Agreement by Hewitt's stockholders is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
Cautionary Statement
 
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the proposed transaction will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule contemplated by the parties; the loss of key Aon or Hewitt employees following the merger; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships with customers, partners and others; the possibility that the proposed transaction does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing
 
conditions; general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon and Hewitt do business around the world; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could impact revenue and expense; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; changes in the funding status of Aon's various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes; Aon's ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, and the ability to achieve those cost savings; the impact on risk and insurance services commission revenues of changes in the availability of, and the premium insurance carriers charge for, insurance and reinsurance products, including the impact on premium rates and market capacity attributable to catastrophic events; the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws; the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from error and omissions claims against Aon or Hewitt; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt retain existing clients and attract new businesses; the extent to which Aon and Hewitt manage certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that Aon and Hewitt currently provide, or will provide in the future, to clients; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt operate, particularly given the global scope of Aon's and Hewitt's businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which Aon and Hewitt do business; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits to Aon of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning Aon, Hewitt, and their business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's and Hewitt's financial results, is contained in Aon's and Hewitt's filings with the SEC.  See Aon's and Hewitt's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Annual Reports to Stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively, and other public filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to our businesses. Neither Aon nor Hewitt undertakes, and each of them expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.
 
Item 9.01.
             
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
For immediate release
 
Aon Stockholders Approve Share Issuance in Hewitt Merger
 
CHICAGO, September 20, 2010
 At a special meeting of stockholders of Aon Corporation (NYSE:AON) held today, Aon stockholders voted in favor of a proposal to approve the issuance of shares of Aon common stock to stockholders of Hewitt Associates Inc., pursuant to the previously announced Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of July 11, 2010, between Aon, two wholly owned subsidiaries of Aon, and Hewitt.  Earlier in the day, stockholders of Hewitt approved adoption of the Agreement and Plan of Merger at a special meeting of Hewitt's stockholders.  Completion of the transaction remains subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of certain regulatory approvals.
 
About Aon
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 36,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than 500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008, 2009 and 2010 Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008 and 2009. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007, 2008 and 2009, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007, 2008 and 2009 by the readers of Business Insurance. Visit http://www.aon.com for more information on Aon and http://www.aon.com/unitedin2010 to learn about Aon's global partnership and shirt sponsorship with Manchester United.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the proposed transaction will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the ability to obtain governmental approvals of the merger on the proposed terms and schedule contemplated by the parties; the failure of stockholders of Hewitt to approve the proposed merger; the failure of the stockholders if Aon to approve the issuance of Aon common stock to Hewitt stockholders; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; disruption from the proposed transaction making it more difficult to maintain business and operational relationships; the possibility that the proposed transaction does not close, including, but not limited to, due to the failure to satisfy the closing conditions; general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon and Hewitt do business around the world; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; funding of Aon's various pension plans; changes in the competitive environment; changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues; the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws; the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies; and the ability to realize the anticipated benefits to Aon of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning Aon, Hewitt, and their business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's and Hewitt's financial results, is contained in Aon's and Hewitt's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC").  See Aon's and Hewitt's Annual Reports on Form 10-K and Annual Reports to Stockholders for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009 and September 30, 2009, respectively, and other public filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties
 
applicable to our businesses. Neither Aon nor Hewitt undertakes, and each of them expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.
 
Additional Information
This communication does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy our securities or the solicitation of any vote or approval.  This communication is being made in respect of the proposed transaction involving Aon and Hewitt.  In connection with the proposed transaction, Aon and Hewitt will be filing documents with the SEC, including the filing by Aon of a registration statement on Form S-4, and Aon and Hewitt intend to mail a joint proxy statement regarding the proposed merger to their respective stockholders that will also constitute a prospectus of Aon. Before making any voting or investment decision, investors and stockholders are urged to read carefully in their entirety the joint proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed transaction and any other relevant documents filed by either Aon or Hewitt with the SEC when they become available because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction.  You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov), by accessing Aon's website at www.aon.com under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the link "SEC Filings" and from Aon by directing a request to Aon at Aon Corporation, 200 E. Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: Investor Relations, and by accessing Hewitt's website at www.hewitt.com under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the link "Reports & SEC Filings" and from Hewitt by directing a request to Hewitt at Hewitt Associates, Inc., 100 Half Day Road, Lincolnshire, Illinois 60069, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
Aon and Hewitt and their respective directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about Aon's directors and executive officers in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 7, 2010. You can find information about Hewitt's directors and executive officers in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on December 16, 2009. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the joint proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available. You can obtain free copies of these documents from Aon and Hewitt using the contact information above.
 


