FILE:AON/AON-8K-20100205064502.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On February 5, 2010, Aon Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release (the "Press Release") announcing its results of operations for the quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009.
 
A copy of the Press Release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a)(c)
      
Not applicable.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
News from Aon
 
Fourth Quarter Highlights
                 
Total revenue increased 9% to $2.1 billion with a decline in organic revenue of 2%
                 
EPS from continuing operations was $0.49 and adjusted EPS from continuing operations, excluding certain items, increased 20% to $0.96
                 
Brokerage revenue increased 8% to $1.7 billion with a decline in organic revenue of 1%
                 
Brokerage pretax margin was 11.5% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 160 basis points to 21.4%
                 
Consulting revenue increased 2% to $350 million with a decline in organic revenue of 4%
                 
Consulting pretax margin was 17.4% and the adjusted pretax margin, excluding certain items, increased 240 basis points to 21.4%
                 
Repurchased 8.6 million shares of common stock for $340 million
                 
Increased estimated annualized savings for the 2007 restructuring program by $69 million to $536 million, and costs necessary to achieve savings by $50 million to $750 million
                 
Completed acquisitions of Allied North America and FCC Global Insurance Services in construction and Carpenter Moore Insurance Services in professional liability
 
CHICAGO, IL  February 5, 2010
- Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) today reported results for the fourth quarter and full year ended December 31, 2009.
 
Net income
attributable to Aon stockholders was $198 million or $0.69 per share, compared to a loss of $6 million or $0.02 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations increased 15% to $142 million or $0.49 per share, compared to $123 million or $0.42 per share for the prior year quarter.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations per share, excluding certain items, increased 20% to $0.96 compared to $0.80 for the prior year quarter.  Certain items that impacted fourth quarter results and comparisons with the prior year quarter are detailed in the reconciliation of non-GAAP measures on page 12 of this press release.
 
"Our fourth quarter results reflect solid operational performance across both Brokerage and Consulting.  On an adjusted basis, total pretax margin increased 190 basis points and EPS from continuing operations increased 20 percent, despite difficult economic conditions and a 63 percent decline in investment income.  Colleagues globally have done an outstanding job supporting our clients in a very challenging year, and we begin 2010 in a position of strength in the industry," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer.  "Recent investments across our organization in construction, professional liability, claims consulting and key talent continue to strengthen our client-serving capability, while our restructuring programs continue to deliver additional cost savings and margin improvement.  With the achievement of a 20% adjusted pretax margin in Brokerage for 2009, we are establishing a new long-term pretax margin target
 
of 25% for the Brokerage segment.  Finally, our balance sheet and strong cash flow provide significant financial flexibility to create shareholder value, as highlighted by the repurchase of an additional $340 million of stock during the quarter, and the authorization of a new two billion dollar share repurchase program subsequent to the close of 2009."
 
FOURTH QUARTER FINANCIAL SUMMARY
 
Total
increased 9% to $2.1 billion due to a 6% increase from foreign currency translation and a 5% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions, partially offset by a $24 million or 63% decline in investment income.
revenue
 
Total operating expenses
increased 10% or $162 million to $1.8 billion due primarily to an estimated $96 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation, an $88 million increase in restructuring related expenses and the inclusion of Benfield operating expenses, partially offset by benefits related to the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs and lower errors and omissions expense resulting from insurance recoveries.
 
Restructuring expenses
were $175 million in the fourth quarter compared to $87 million in the prior year quarter. 
An analysis of restructuring-related expenses by segment and type for both the 2007 and Aon Benfield restructuring programs are detailed on page 13 of this release.
 
Restructuring savings
in the fourth quarter related to the 2007 restructuring program are estimated at $108 million compared to $32 million in the prior year quarter.  Of the estimated restructuring savings in the fourth quarter, $90 million were related to the Brokerage segment primarily from workforce reduction.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the 2007 restructuring program delivered $269 million of cumulative cost savings in 2009, and is now expected to deliver $536 million of annualized run-rate cost savings by the end of 2010, primarily as a result of additional cost savings opportunities to streamline support functions globally.
 
Restructuring savings in the fourth quarter related to the Aon Benfield restructuring program are estimated at $17 million.  Before any potential reinvestment of savings, the Benfield restructuring program delivered $45 million of cumulative cost savings in 2009, and is expected to deliver cumulative cost savings of $90-100 million in 2010 and $122 million in 2011.
 
Currency
fluctuations in the fourth quarter favorably impacted adjusted net income from continuing operations by $0.05 per diluted share when the Company translates prior year quarter results at current quarter foreign exchange rates.
 
Effective tax rate
on net income from continuing operations decreased to 25.4% for the fourth quarter compared to 28.2% for the prior year quarter due primarily to changes in the geographical distribution of income. The Company anticipates an effective tax rate on net income from continuing operations of 28.0% for 2010.
 
Average diluted shares outstanding
decreased to 287.8 million in the fourth quarter compared to 291.4 million in the prior year quarter due primarily to the Company's share repurchase program.  During the quarter, the Company repurchased 8.6 million shares of common stock for $340 million.  The company has approximately $265 million remaining under the existing share repurchase program previously authorized in 2005.
 
Discontinued Operations
after-tax income was $56 million or $0.20 per share in the fourth quarter compared to an after-tax loss of $129 million or $0.44 per share in the prior year quarter.  The fourth quarter primarily reflects the recognition of a foreign tax credit carryback related to the completed sale of Combined Insurance Companies of America (CICA).  The prior year quarter included an estimated $116 million loss on disposal of the property and casualty insurance operations and the results of Automobile Insurance Specialists (AIS).
 
FOURTH QUARTER SEGMENT REVIEW
 
Certain noteworthy items impacted pretax income and pretax margins in the fourth quarter of 2009 and 2008.  The fourth quarter segment reviews provided below include supplemental information related to organic revenue growth, adjusted pretax income and pretax margin which is described in detail on the "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Organic Revenue Growth" on page 11 and "Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Segments and Diluted Earnings Per Share" on page 12 of this press release.
 
RISK AND INSURANCE BROKERAGE SERVICES
 
 
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue increased 8% to $1.7 billion compared to the prior year quarter due to a 6% favorable impact from foreign currency translation on commissions and fees and a 5% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions, partially offset by a $23 million or 62% decline in investment income.
 
Retail organic revenue declined 1% compared to the prior year quarter.  By geographic region in Retail, the Americas organic revenue was similar to the prior year quarter as strong growth in Latin America and strong new business growth in U.S. retail was offset by the impact of soft pricing and lower exposure units on renewal business in Canada and U.S. retail.  U.K. organic revenue decreased 9% due primarily to weak economic conditions, soft pricing and lower new business.  EMEA organic revenue increased 2% due to strong growth in emerging markets, partially offset by weak economic conditions in Continental Europe.  APAC organic revenue was similar to the prior year reflecting strong growth in emerging markets partially offset by soft market conditions in Australia.  Reinsurance organic revenue decreased 2% due primarily to higher cedent retentions in treaty business, partially offset by new business growth in treaty placements globally, facultative and capital markets transactions.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the fourth quarter increased 18% or $165 million compared to the prior year quarter including
an $88 million increase in restructuring related costs,
a $54 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and
increased operating expenses from the Benfield merger, partially offset by
benefits related to the restructuring programs.
 
Other operating expenses for the fourth quarter decreased 4% or $18 million from the prior year quarter due primarily to lower errors and omissions expense resulting from insurance recoveries and benefits related to the restructuring programs, partially offset by a $25 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and the
inclusion of Benfield operating expenses
.
 
Fourth quarter pretax income decreased 8% to $196 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income increased 17% or $53 million to $363 million and pretax margin increased 160 basis points to 21.4% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits of the restructuring programs and lower errors and omissions expense, partially offset by a $23 million decrease in investment income.
 
CONSULTING
 
 
Consulting total revenue increased 2% to $350 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to a 5% favorable impact from foreign currency translation and a 2% increase from acquisitions, net of dispositions, partially offset by a 4% decline in organic commissions and fees revenue.  Organic revenue in Services decreased 4% primarily reflecting a decline in compensation and retirement consulting, partially offset by growth in international health and
 
 
benefits.  Organic revenue in Outsourcing declined 2% as the wind down from a previously announced outsourcing contract was completed in the fourth quarter.
 
 
Compensation and benefits for the fourth quarter increased 3% or $7 million from the prior year quarter including a $10 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and
a $4 million increase in restructuring related costs
, partially offset by benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program.  Other operating expenses decreased 4% or $3 million compared to the prior year quarter due to benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program and lower errors and omissions expense resulting from insurance recoveries, partially offset by a $6 million unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation.
 
Fourth quarter pretax income increased 11% to $61 million.  Adjusting for certain items detailed on page 12 of this press release, pretax income increased 15% or $10 million to $75 million and pretax margin increased 240 basis points to 21.4% versus the prior year quarter due primarily to benefits related to the 2007 restructuring program and lower errors and omissions expense, partially offset by a decline in organic revenue.
 
UNALLOCATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
 
 
Unallocated revenue
for the fourth quarter was $29 million reflecting the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds.  decreased $31 million
Unallocated expenses
to $43 million.  The fourth quarter included $5 million of expense related to the Company's equity ownership in certain insurance investment funds.  The prior year quarter included $44 million of hedging costs related to the Benfield transaction. decreased $3 million to $10 million compared to the prior year quarter due primarily to lower cash balances.  increased $5 million to $35 million due to an increase in the average rate on outstanding debt.
  Interest income
Interest expense
 
2009 FULL YEAR SUMMARY
 
Total revenue for 2009 increased 1% to $7.6 billion due to a 7% increase from acquisitions, primarily Benfield, net of dispositions, primarily offset by a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a $97 million or 57% decline in investment income.  Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services total revenue increased 2% to $6.3 billion and Consulting total revenue decreased 7% to $1.3 billion.
 
Net income attributable to Aon stockholders for 2009 decreased 49% to $747 million compared to $1.5 billion for the prior year.  The prior year included a $935 million after-tax gain on the sales of Combined Insurance Companies of America (CICA) and Sterling Life Insurance (Sterling).  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations increased 2% to $636 million compared to $621 million for the prior year.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders, excluding certain items, increased 4% to $906 million compared to $874 million for the prior year.  Certain items that impacted full year results and comparisons against the prior year are detailed in the reconciliations of the impact of non-GAAP measures on page 12.
 
Net income attributable to Aon stockholders for 2009 decreased 46% to $2.57 per share compared to $4.80 per share for the prior year.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders from continuing operations increased 7% to $2.19 per share compared to $2.04 per share for the prior year.  Net income attributable to Aon stockholders, excluding certain items, increased 8% to $3.11 per share compared to $2.87 per share for the prior year.  Certain items that impacted full year results and comparisons against the prior year are detailed in the reconciliations of the impact of non-GAAP measures on page 12.
 
During 2009, the Company repurchased approximately 15.1 million shares of common stock for $590 million at an average price of $39.17 per share.
 
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
In January 2010, the Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program under which up to $2 billion of common stock may be repurchased from time to time depending on market conditions or other factors through open market or privately negotiated transactions.  Repurchases will commence under the new share repurchase program upon conclusion of the existing program.
 
Conference Call and Webcast Details
 
The Company will host a conference call on Friday, February 5, 2010 at 7:30 a.m. central time.  Interested parties can listen to the conference call via a live audio webcast at www.aon.com.
 
About Aon
 
Aon Corporation (NYSE: AON) is the leading global provider of risk management services, insurance and reinsurance brokerage, and human capital consulting. Through its more than 36,000 colleagues worldwide, Aon readily delivers distinctive client value via innovative and effective risk management and workforce productivity solutions. Aon's industry-leading global resources and technical expertise are delivered locally through more than
500 offices in more than 120 countries. Named the world's best broker by Euromoney magazine's 2008 and 2009 Insurance Survey, Aon also ranked highest on Business Insurance's listing of the world's largest insurance brokers based on commercial retail, wholesale, reinsurance and personal lines brokerage revenues in 2008 and 2009. A.M. Best deemed Aon the number one insurance broker based on brokerage revenues in 2007, 2008, and 2009, and Aon was voted best insurance intermediary, best reinsurance intermediary and best employee benefits consulting firm in 2007, 2008 and 2009 by the readers of Business Insurance. For more information on Aon, log onto http://www.aon.com.
 
Safe Harbor Statement
 
This press release contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors. Potential factors that could impact results include: general economic conditions in different countries in which we do business around the world, changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets, fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense, rating agency actions that could affect our ability to borrow funds, funding of our various pension plans, changes in the competitive environment, our ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, changes in commercial property and casualty markets and commercial premium rates that could impact revenues, the outcome of inquiries from regulators and investigations related to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws, the impact of investigations brought by U.S. state attorneys general, U.S. state insurance regulators, U.S. federal prosecutors, U.S. federal regulators, and regulatory authorities in the U.K. and other countries, the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions, ERISA class actions, the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, and our ability to integrate Benfield successfully and to realize the anticipated benefits of the Benfield merger.  Further information concerning the Company and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect the Company's financial results, is contained in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
Explanation of Non-GAAP Measures
 
This press release includes supplemental information related to organic revenue growth and several additional measures including expenses, margins and income per share, that exclude the effects of restructuring charges and certain other noteworthy items that affected results for the comparable periods.  Organic revenue growth excludes from reported revenues the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestitures, transfers between business units, investment income, reimbursable expenses and unusual items.  The impact of foreign exchange is determined by translating last year's revenue, expense or net income at this year's foreign exchange rates.  Reconciliation is provided in the attached schedules.  Supplemental organic revenue growth information and additional measures that exclude the effects of the restructuring charges and certain other items do not affect net income or any other GAAP reported amounts.  Management believes that these measures are important to make meaningful period-to-period comparisons and that this supplemental information is helpful to investors.  They should be viewed in addition to, not in lieu of, the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income.  Industry peers provide similar supplemental information regarding their performance, although they may not make identical adjustments.
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Income (Unaudited)
 
 
Aon Corporation
Revenue from Continuing Operations (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
Segments (Unaudited)
Risk and Insurance Brokerage Services - Continuing Operations
 
 
Consulting - Continuing Operations
 
 
Reconciliation of segment income before income taxes to income from continuing operations before income taxes:
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Organic Revenue Growth (Unaudited)
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures - Segment Income and Diluted Earnings Per Share (Unaudited) (1)
 
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
Restructuring Plans (Unaduited) (1)
 
2007 Restructuring Plan
 
By Type:
 
 
Benfield Restructuring Plan
 
By Type:
 
 
 
 
Aon Corporation
Consolidated Statements of Income - Reflects the reclassification of non-fiduciary investment income and other items (unaudited)
 
Aon Corporation
Segments   Reclassified for the changes in presentation of non-fiduciary investment income, equity income in non-consolidated subsidiaries, realized gains from investments, and investment expenses (unaudited)
 


