FILE:AON/AON-8K-20111220170452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01
                                            
Other Events.
 
On December 20, 2011, Aon Corporation announced that it has agreed to a settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission relating to certain payments made in overseas jurisdictions between 1983 and 2007.  A copy of the press release is filed herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) - (c)                   Not applicable.
 
(d)           Exhibits:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Media Contact:
David Prosperi
312.381.2485
david.prosperi@aon.com
 
For immediate release
 
Aon Confirms Settlement Agreements with DOJ and SEC
 
CHICAGO, December 20, 2011 
Aon Corporation (NYSE:AON), today said it has agreed to a settlement agreement of approximately $16.3 million with the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to certain payments made in overseas jurisdictions between 1983 and 2007.
 
Specifically, Aon has agreed to pay $1.76 million to the DOJ as part of a non-prosecution agreement and approximately $14.55 million to the SEC in disgorgement and interest to settle a civil action. The company expects no impact on fourth quarter results as the settlement amounts were accrued for in prior periods.
 
In the non-prosecution agreement, the DOJ cited Aon's extraordinary cooperation; its timely and complete disclosure of the facts; the early and extensive remedial efforts undertaken by the firm, including the substantial improvements Aon has made to its anti-corruption compliance procedures; and Aon Limited's prior settlement of these matters with its U.K. regulator. Aon Limited is the insurance brokerage and risk management business of Aon in the United Kingdom.
 
Since beginning an internal review of these issues in 2007, Aon has put in place a comprehensive, global and robust anti-corruption program designed to prevent and detect improper conduct. As part of a related settlement in 2009, Aon Limited's regulator, the U.K. Financial Services Authority (FSA), stated that "the pro-active determination of Aon Ltd.'s current senior management to identify past issues and improve the firm's systems and controls in this area is a model of best practice that other firms may wish to adopt."
 
"Acting with integrity is Aon's core value and we embody this in our commitment to the highest professional standards for our clients, markets and colleagues," said Greg Case, president and chief executive officer of Aon. "Aon has invested a significant amount of time and resources in anti-corruption compliance and transparency to greatly enhance our controls and processes.
 
"The FSA, DOJ and the SEC all have recognized Aon's determination to set and meet the requisite high standards of compliance in this area. We believe that today our compliance practices are a model of best practice for other firms to adopt."
 
Throughout the course of its review, Aon cooperated fully with all relevant agencies, including the DOJ, the SEC and the FSA.
 
About Aon
Aon
Corporation (NYSE:AON) is the leading global provider of
risk management
,
insurance
and
reinsurance
brokerage, and
human resources
solutions and
outsourcing
services. Through its more than 61,000 colleagues worldwide,
Aon
unites to empower results for clients in over 120 countries via
innovative
and effective
risk
and people solutions and through industry-leading global resources and technical expertise. Aon has been named repeatedly as the world's best
broker
, best insurance intermediary, reinsurance intermediary, captives manager and best
employee benefits
consulting firm by multiple industry sources. Visit
http://www.aon.com
for more information on Aon and
http://www.aon.com/manchesterunited
to learn about Aon's global partnership and shirt sponsorship with
Manchester United
.
 


