FILE:AON/AON-8K-20120312171020.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
x
         
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
U.K. Tax Considerations
 
The definitive proxy statement/prospectus dated February 6, 2012, filed by Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the "Company") with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") (the "Proxy Statement/Prospectus"), contained a summary of the material U.K. tax consequences to Company stockholders of the merger transaction.  In particular, the Proxy Statement/Prospectus stated that the merger transaction would constitute a disposal by stockholders for corporation tax and capital gain tax purposes in the U.K. of their stock in the Company for a consideration equal to the market value of the stock at that time.  This would, subject to the availability of any reliefs, result in any stockholders who are generally subject to U.K. tax realizing a chargeable gain or allowable loss for the purposes of corporation tax or capital gains tax.
 
Since the publication of the Proxy Statement/Prospectus, the Company obtained confirmation from H.M. Revenue & Customs on March 12, 2012 that the transfer of Class A Ordinary Shares of the new U.K. parent company of the Aon group ("Aon UK") to the stockholders of the Company in exchange for their holdings in the Company should, in principle, fall within the scope of the reorganization provisions in Section 135 of the Taxation of Chargeable Gains Act 1992 which give "rollover" treatment to certain share-for-share exchanges. This, in effect, means that Company stockholders will be treated for U.K. tax purposes as not disposing of their original holding in the Company. The original holding in the Company and the new holding in Aon UK will be treated as the same asset, acquired at the same time, and for the same amount as the original stock.  As a result, stockholders who are generally subject to U.K. tax should not be subject to an immediate tax charge in respect of the merger transaction.
 
Please note that this clearance has been given subject to certain conditions and assumptions.  Moreover, the rolloverprovisions in Section 135 do not apply where the exchange is not undertaken for bona fide commercial reasons or forms part of the scheme or arrangement of which the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, is the avoidance of liability to capital gains tax or corporation tax. While the Company does not believe that there is any reason why rollover treatment should be denied under these provisions, the Company has not sought or obtained any advance clearance to that effect.
 
The Company would therefore recommend that any stockholder potentially seeking to claim the benefit of Section 135 should obtain their own taxation advice before making any tax returns in respect of the merger transaction.
 
Administrative Amendment to the Merger Agreement
 
On March 12, 2012, the Company entered into an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization between the Company and Market Mergeco Inc. ("Mergeco"), dated January 12, 2012 (as amended, the "Merger Agreement"). 
The purpose of the Amendment was to revise the administrative procedures by which the exchange agent appointed in connection with the Merger Agreement would deliver Class A Ordinary Shares of Aon UK to the holders of the Company's common stock, par value $1.00 per share following the effective time of the merger.
 
The foregoing summary of the Amendment and the transactions contemplated thereby contained in this Item 8.01 does not purport to be a complete description and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the terms and conditions of the Amendment, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 and incorporated herein by reference.  A copy of questions and answers related to the Amendment issued by the Company on March 12, 2012 is filed as Exhibit 99.1 and is also incorporated herein by reference.
 
Revisions to the Proposed Articles of Association of Aon UK
 
Also on March 12, 2012, the Company made certain minor revisions to the form of the articles of association (the "New Articles") that will govern Aon UK after the effective time of the proposed merger (the "merger") between the Company and Mergeco, as more fully described in the definitive Proxy Statement/Prospectus.  The purpose of the revisions was to make clarifying and administrative changes and technical corrections.  The revisions included the following:
 
                 
Article 6 has been revised to provide that the nominal value of the Class B Ordinary shares of Aon UK (which will not be issued in connection with the merger) will be GBP0.10 or such other nominal value as may be determined by the board of directors of Aon UK;
                 
Articles 59 and 76 have been revised to clarify that shares of Aon UK for whom "broker non-votes" occur in connection with a meeting of shareholders will, in certain circumstances, be considered present for purposes of the determination of a quorum; and
                 
Article 104 has been revised to provide that a proxy may be in such form as the board of directors of Aon UK may approve, whether or not in written form.
 
The foregoing description of the New Articles does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the New Articles, which are filed as Exhibit 99.2 hereto and incorporated into this report by reference.
 
If a stockholder of the Company has returned a proxy card or voting instruction card or otherwise voted for purposes of the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company scheduled to be held on March 16, 2012, such stockholder may revoke prior voting instructions and cast a new vote by following the procedures described in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
Additional Information
 
In connection with the proposed reorganization, the Company has filed with the SEC a definitive proxy statement, which also constitutes a prospectus of Aon UK, and each of the Company and Aon UK may be filing with the SEC other documents regarding the proposed reorganization.  The proxy statement/prospectus was mailed to the Company's stockholders on or about February 10, 2012.  Before making any voting or investment decision, investors and stockholders are urged to read carefully in their entirety the definitive proxy statement/prospectus regarding the proposed reorganization and any other relevant documents filed by either the Company or Aon UK with the SEC when they become available because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction.  You may obtain copies of all documents filed with the SEC regarding this transaction, free of charge, at the SEC's website (www.sec.gov) or from the Company and Aon UK by accessing Aon's website at www.aon.com under the heading "Investor Relations" and then under the link "SEC Filings" or by directing a request to 200 East RandolphStreet, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: Investor Relations.
 
The Company and Aon UK and their respective directors and executive officers and certain other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transaction. You can find information about the Company's directors and executive officers in its definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 8, 2011. Other information regarding the participants in the proxy solicitation and a description of their direct and indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will be contained in the proxy statement/prospectus and other relevant materials to be filed with the SEC when they become available. You can obtain free copies of these documents using the contact information above.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

EXHIBIT 2.1
 
This AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER AND REORGANIZATION (this "") is entered into as of March 12, 2012 (the ""), by and among Aon Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("") and Market Mergeco Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of Aon Delaware.  Capitalized terms used but not otherwise defined herein shall have the meanings assigned thereto in the Merger Agreement (as defined below).
Amendment
Effective Date
Aon Delaware
Mergeco
 
A.            The parties hereto entered into that certain Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization, dated as of January 12, 2012 (as amended, restated or otherwise modified from time to time, the ""), by and among Aon Delaware and Mergeco, pursuant to which Mergeco shall be merged with and into Aon Delaware (the "") with Aon Delaware surviving the Merger;
Merger Agreement
Merger
 
B.            The parties hereto have determined to amend the Merger Agreement; and
 
C.            Section 6.3 of the Merger Agreement permits the amendment of the Merger Agreement pursuant to a written agreement executed by each of the parties thereto.
 
NOW THEREFORE
, in consideration of the foregoing and of the covenants and agreements contained herein, and of other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
 
Section 1.              .  Effective as of the Effective Date, the Merger Agreement is hereby amended as set forth below:
Amendments to the Merger Agreement
 
1.1          The reference in Section 3.1(b) of the Merger Agreement to "Section 3.2(l)" shall be replaced with "Section 3.2(k)".
 
1.2          Section 3.2 of the Merger Agreement is hereby amended and restated in its entirety as follows:
 
Section 3.2            .
Surrender and Exchange of Shares
 
a.             Following the date of this Agreement and in any event prior to the Effective Time, Aon Delaware shall select a bank or trust company to act as exchange agent in connection with the Merger (together with any other bank or trust company also selected, the "") for the purpose of delivering or causing to be delivered to each holder of Aon Delaware Common Stock those Class A Ordinary Shares and any cash in lieu of fractional interests to which such holder shall become entitled to receive with respect to such holder's shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock pursuant to this .  The Exchange Agent shall act as agent for each holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock in connection therewith.
Exchange Agent
Article III
 
b.             Prior to the Effective Time, Mergeco, or, after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation, shall deposit or cause to be deposited with the Exchange Agent, from time to time, (i) that number of Class A Ordinary Shares, in such denominations as the Exchange Agent shall specify, as are deliverable pursuant to , and which, unless the Company shall otherwise determine, shall be deposited with the Exchange Agent through the facilities of The Depository Trust Company (""), and (ii) the amount of cash that is payable pursuant to this , in each case in respect of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock for which Certificates are expected to be properly delivered to the Exchange Agent.
Section 3.1
DTC
Article III
 
c.             Promptly after the Effective Time, the Surviving Corporation shall cause to be mailed to each record holder, immediately prior to the Effective Time, of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock, a form of letter of transmittal, which shall specify that delivery shall be effected, and risk of loss and title to any shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock that are represented by certificates ("") held by such holder, if any, representing such shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock shall pass, only upon actual and proper delivery of such Certificates to the Exchange Agent.
Certificates
 
d.             Each record holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock shall be entitled to receive in exchange for such holder's shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock, upon (1) surrender to the Exchange Agent of a Certificate, if any, (2) delivery of a letter of transmittal, duly completed and validly executed in accordance with the instructions thereto, and (3) delivery of such other documents as may be required pursuant to such instructions, the number of whole Class A Ordinary Shares into which such holder's shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock represented by such holder's properly surrendered shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock were converted in accordance with and any cash dividends or other distributions that such holder has the right to receive pursuant to  and .
Section 3.1
Section 3.2(h)
Section 3.2(k)
 
e.             If delivery of Class A Ordinary Shares in respect of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock is to be made to a person other than the person in whose name the surrendered Certificate, if any, is registered, or, in the case of uncertificated shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock (""), to a person other than the person in whose name such Uncertificated Shares are registered, it shall be a condition of delivery that the Certificate, if any so surrendered shall be properly endorsed or shall be otherwise in proper form for transfer and that the person requesting such payment or delivery shall have paid to the Exchange Agent any transfer and other taxes required by reason of the delivery of the Class A Ordinary Shares to a person other than the registered holder or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Exchange Agent that such tax either has been paid or is not applicable.  Until a duly completed and validly executed letter of transmittal shall have been received in respect of a share or shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock and, if such a share or shares are represented by a Certificate, such Certificate shall be duly surrendered, after the Effective Time, each such share shall represent for all purposes only the right to receive upon such receipt of a letter of transmittal and surrender of a Certificate, if any, the applicable Class A Ordinary Shares as contemplated by this .
Uncertificated Shares
Article III
 
f.             At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of Aon Delaware shall be closed and thereafter there shall be no further registration of transfers of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock that were outstanding prior to the Effective Time.  After the Effective Time,
Certificates presented to the Surviving Corporation for transfer shall be canceled and exchanged for the consideration provided for, and in accordance with the procedures set forth, in this .
Article III
 
g.             Any Class A Ordinary Shares to be delivered plus any cash dividend or other distribution that a former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock has the right to receive pursuant to this that remains unclaimed by any former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock after the Effective Time shall be held by the Exchange Agent (or a successor agent appointed by the Surviving Corporation).  Any portion of such securities or funds that remains undistributed to the former holders of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock at the twelve month anniversary of the Effective Time shall be delivered to the Surviving Corporation, upon demand, or to its designee, and any former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock who has not theretofore complied with this shall thereafter look only to the Surviving Corporation for payment of any consideration due to it hereunder.  None of the Surviving Corporation, Aon UK or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock for any securities properly delivered or any amount properly paid by the Exchange Agent or its nominee, as the case may be, to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law nine months after the Effective Time.  If a letter of transmittal has not been received and a Certificate, if any, has not been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock as provided in this prior to two years after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to an earlier date on which the Class A Ordinary Shares in respect of such a share or shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any governmental entity) any cash, share dividends and distributions otherwise payable in respect thereof  shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of the Surviving Corporation, free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto.
Article III
Article III
Article III
 
h.             No dividends or other distributions with respect to Class A Ordinary Shares deliverable with respect to the shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock shall be paid to any holder of Aon Delaware Common Stock until after a letter of transmittal has been received and a Certificate, if any, has been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock, as provided in this .  After surrender, there shall be delivered and/or paid to the holder of the Class A Ordinary Shares delivered in exchange therefor, without interest, (A) at the time of surrender, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to those Class A Ordinary Shares with a record date on or after the date of the Effective Time and a payment date on or prior to the date of this surrender and not previously paid and (B) at the appropriate payment date, the dividends or other distributions payable with respect to those Class A Ordinary Shares with a record date on or after the date of the Effective Time but with a payment date subsequent to surrender.
Article III
 
i.              No holder of Aon Delaware Common Stock will be entitled to exercise voting rights with respect to Class A Ordinary Shares deliverable with respect to such Aon Delaware Common Stock until after a letter of transmittal has been received and a Certificate, if any, has been surrendered in respect of a share or shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock, as provided in this .
Article III
j.              In the event that any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the holder's compliance with the replacement requirements established by the Exchange Agent, including, if necessary, the posting by the holder of a bond in customary amount as indemnity against any claim that may be made against it with respect to the Certificate, the Exchange Agent shall deliver in exchange for the lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate the applicable Class A Ordinary Shares deliverable in respect of the shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock represented by the Certificate pursuant to this .
Article III
 
k.             Each holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock otherwise entitled to receive a fractional interest in a Class A Ordinary Share pursuant to the terms of this , shall be entitled to receive, in accordance with the provisions of this , a cash payment (without interest) in lieu of that fractional interest in a Class A Ordinary Share determined by multiplying the fractional interest to which such holder would otherwise be entitled by the closing price for a Class A Ordinary Share as reported on the NYSE on the last trading day prior to the date on which the Effective Time occurs.  For purposes of this , all fractional interests to which a single holder would be entitled shall be aggregated and calculations shall be rounded to three decimal places.  Any cash payment in lieu of a fractional interest shall be made in U.S. dollars and shall be rounded to the nearest cent.
Article III
Section 3.2(k)
Section 3.2(k)
 
l.              Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the Surviving Corporation and the Exchange Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration otherwise payable to any former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement any amounts as may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of this payment under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or under any provision of state, local or foreign tax law.  To the extent that amounts are so withheld and paid over to the appropriate taxing authority, the Surviving Corporation shall be treated as though it withheld an appropriate amount of the type of consideration otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement to any former holder of shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock, sold this consideration for an amount of cash equal to the fair market value of the consideration at the time of the deemed sale and paid these cash proceeds to the appropriate taxing authority.
 
Section 2.              .
Miscellaneous
 
2.1          .This Amendment shall be governed by the covenants, terms and conditions set forth in Article VI (Termination, Amendment and Waiver) and Article VIII (General Provisions) of the Merger Agreement, as applicable.
Terms and Conditions
 
 
2.2          .Except as amended by this Amendment, the Merger Agreement is hereby ratified and confirmed in all respects and shall remain in full force and effect.  From and after the date hereof, all references to the Merger Agreement shall refer to the Merger Agreement as amended by this Amendment.
Continuing Effect
 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed this Amendment as of the date first above written.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Why was the Merger Agreement amended?
 
On March 12, 2012, Aon Corporation (the "", the "" or "") and Market Mergeco Inc. ("") entered into an administrative amendment (the "") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization between Aon Delaware and Mergeco, dated January 12, 2012 (as amended, the "").  The purpose of the Amendment was to revise the administrative procedures by which the exchange agent would deliver Class A Ordinary Shares of the new U.K. parent company ("") of the Aon group ("") to the holders of Aon Delaware's common stock (the " ") following the effective time of the merger.  Prior to the entry into the Amendment, the Merger Agreement generally provided that each Class A Ordinary Share that was deliverable to a holder of record of the common stock of Aon Delaware that did not hold shares represented by certificates (i.e., a registered holder of uncertificated shares) would have its shares delivered, immediately following the merger, to a custodian, which would hold such Class A Ordinary Shares in a custodial account.
Aon Delaware
Company
we
Mergeco
Amendment
Merger Agreement
Aon UK
Class A Ordinary Shares
Aon Delaware Common
Stock
 
Aon Delaware has amended the Merger Agreement to provide that Class A Ordinary Shares to be delivered in exchange for all shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock held of record, whether in certificated or uncertificated form, ("") will initially be delivered to the exchange agent appointed in connection with the Merger Agreement to be held in its exchange fund.  Such Class A Ordinary Shares will be disbursed from the exchange fund once the exchange agent has received a letter of transmittal, completed and validly executed in accordance with its instructions, a properly surrendered certificate from Record Holders, and such other documents as may be required (the "").  Upon receipt of the Required Documents, the exchange agent will then, according to the directions of the holder contained in the Required Documents, deliver the Class A Ordinary Shares in the manner instructed.
Record Holders
Required Documents
 
We believe that this change is in the best interests of our stockholders because, unlike shares held in a custodial account, Class A Ordinary Shares held in the exchange fund will not be subject to ejection from the exchange fund if "know your customer" information is not received within 90 days following the closing.  As described in the Company's proxy statement relating to its special meeting of stockholders to be held on March 16, 2012, shares ejected from a custodial arrangement would be delivered in certificated form, and shares held in certificated form are generally subject to stamp duty and/or stamp duty reserve tax ("") under U.K. law in connection with future transfers.  However, transfers wholly within the facilities of The Depository Trust Company ("") will generally not be subject to stamp duty and/or SDRT.  As a result, the Company believes that it is important to allow prospective holders of Class A Ordinary Shares to have time to make arrangements for the transfer of their shares to a bank or broker within the DTC system.  The Company believes that holding the Class A Ordinary Shares in the exchange fund until instructions are received will make this process easier by eliminating the need to complete transfers of such shares before 90 days after the effective time of the merger.  The Company believes that the initial transfer of Class A Ordinary Shares from the exchange fund will not be subject to stamp duty and/or SDRT.
SDRT
DTC
 
What if I hold my shares through a bank or broker?
 
If an Aon Delaware stockholder holds Company Stock as a beneficial holder in "street name" though a bank, broker or other financial institution, it will not be required to take any action and its ownership of Class A Ordinary Shares will be recorded in book entry form by its broker without any need for additional action on the holder's part.
 
What must Record Holders do to receive their Class A Ordinary Shares?
 
Aon Delaware stockholders who hold Aon Delaware Common Stock as Record Holders will be sent a letter of transmittal, which will contain instructions for surrendering such stockholder's stock certificates, if any, and requesting Class A Ordinary Shares. Upon delivery to the exchange agent of a properly completed letter of transmittal, along with such other of the Required Documents, a Record Holder will receive the number of whole Class A Ordinary Shares into which such Record Holder's shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock represented by such Record Holder's properly surrendered shares of Aon Delaware Common Stock were converted in accordance with the Merger Agreement.  The exchange agent will, according to the directions contained in the Required Documents, deliver the Class A Ordinary Shares in respect of such Record Holder's Aon Delaware Common Stock in the manner indicated in the properly-executed letter of transmittal.
 
What are Record Holders' rights in relation to Aon UK before the exchange of Aon Delaware Common
Stock for Class A Ordinary Shares is complete?
 
From and after the effective time of the merger and pursuant to the terms of the Merger Agreement, Class A Ordinary Shares for Record Holders of Aon Delaware Common Stock will initially be held by the exchange agent in an exchange fund.  Until the Required Documents are submitted to the exchange agent, (i) any dividends or other distributions declared by Aon UK after the effective time of the merger with respect to Class A Ordinary Shares delivered to former Aon Delaware stockholders, other than any Class A Ordinary Shares held by the Aon Delaware or any other subsidiary of the Aon Delaware, will accrue without interest but will not be paid and (ii) Record Holders of such shares will not have voting rights with respect to Aon UK.
 
What happens if the Required Documents are never submitted?
 
Any portion of the Class A Ordinary Shares or other funds deposited with the exchange agent in the exchange fund that remain undistributed to former holders of Aon Delaware Common Stock at the twelve month anniversary of the effective time of the merger may be delivered to Aon Delaware, upon demand, or to its designee, and any former holder of Aon Delaware Common Stock who has not theretofore properly submitted the Required Documents shall thereafter look only to Aon Delaware for payment of any consideration due to it from the merger.
 
None of Aon Delaware, Aon UK or the exchange agent will be liable to any former holder of Aon Delaware Common Stock for any securities properly delivered or any amount properly paid by the exchange agent or its nominee, as the case may be, to a public official pursuant to applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar law nine months after the effective time of the merger.  If any certificate representing Aon Delaware Common Stock has not been
 
surrendered prior to two years after the effective time of the merger (or immediately prior to an earlier date on which the Class A Ordinary Shares would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any governmental entity) any cash, share dividends and distributions otherwise payable in respect of the certificate shall, to the extent permitted by applicable law, become the property of Aon Delaware, as the surviving corporation, free and clear of all claims or interest of any person previously entitled thereto.

Exhibit 99.2
 
COMPANY NUMBER: 7876075
 
 
 
 
COMPANY NUMBER: 7876075
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


