FILE:AON/AON-8K-20121213060055.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 1.01.             Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
See description under Item 2.03.
 
Item 2.03.             Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation of a Registrant.
 
On December 12, 2012, Aon plc (the "Registrant") issued $165,946,000 aggregate principal amount of 4.250% Notes Due 2042 (the "New Notes") in connection with the expiration of the previously announced exchange offer of Aon Corporation's outstanding junior subordinated debentures (the "Exchange Offer").  The New Notes were issued pursuant to an Indenture (the "Indenture"), dated as of December 12, 2012, between the Registrant, Aon Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as trustee.  The Indenture, form of Rule 144A Global Note and the form of Regulation S Global Note are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
In connection with the issuance of the New Notes, the Registrant and Aon Corporation entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with the dealer managers named therein, dated December 12, 2012, which will give holders of the New Notes certain exchange and registration rights with respect to the New Notes. A copy of the Registration Rights Agreement is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.4 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 8.01.             Other Events.
 
On December 12, 2012, Aon plc issued a press release announcing the final results of its Exchange Offer.  The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
Provisions of Sections 310 through 318(a) of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and the within Indenture among Aon plc, Aon Corporation and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., Trustee:
 
** This Cross-Reference Sheet is not part of the Indenture.
 
THIS INDENTURE, dated as of the 12
th
 day of December, 2012, is among Aon plc, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of England and Wales (hereinafter sometimes called the "Company"), Aon Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (hereinafter sometimes called the "Guarantor") and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association duly incorporated and existing under the laws of the United States of America (hereinafter sometimes called the "Trustee", which term shall include any successor trustee appointed pursuant to Article Seven).
WHEREAS, the Company deems it necessary to issue from time to time for its lawful purposes securities (hereinafter called "Securities" or, in the singular, "Security") evidencing its unsecured indebtedness and has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance of the Securities in one or more series, unlimited as to principal amount and which may be guaranteed from time to time by the Guarantor, to bear such rates of interest, to mature at such time or times and to have such other provisions as shall be fixed as hereinafter provided; and
 
WHEREAS, each of the Company and the Guarantor represents that all acts and things necessary to present a valid and binding indenture and agreement according to its terms have been done and performed, and the execution of this Indenture by each of the Company and the Guarantor has in all respects been duly authorized, and each of the Company and the Guarantor, in the exercise of legal rights and power in it vested, is executing this Indenture;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in order to declare the terms and conditions upon which the Securities are authenticated, issued, and received, and in consideration of the foregoing premises and of the purchase and acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof, each of the Company and the Guarantor covenants and agrees with the Trustee, for the equal and proportionate benefit of the respective Holders from time to time of the Securities, as follows:
Section 1.01.
                        
Definitions
.  The terms defined in this Section (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) for all purposes of this Indenture and of any indenture supplemental hereto (except as otherwise provided therein) shall have the respective meanings specified in this Section.  All other terms used in this Indenture which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended and the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, shall have the meanings (except as herein otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires) assigned to such terms in the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 and in the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, in each case, as in force at the date of this Indenture as originally executed.
Except as otherwise expressly provided in or pursuant to this Indenture or unless the context otherwise requires, for all purposes of this Indenture and any indenture supplemental hereto:
 
(1)
                                
the terms defined in this Article include the plural as well as the singular;
 
(2)
                                
all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with GAAP;
 
(3)
                                
the words "herein", "hereof", "hereto" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision;
 
(4)
                                
references herein to Articles, Sections and other subdivisions shall be to the Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this Indenture;
 
(5)
                                
the word "or" is used inclusively (for example, the phrase "A or B" means "A or B or both", not "either A or B but not both");
 
(6)
                                
provisions apply to successive events and transactions;
 
(7)
                                
the term "merger" includes a statutory share exchange and the terms "merge" and "merged" have correlative meanings;
 
(8)
                                
the masculine gender includes the feminine and the neuter; and
 
(9)
                                
references to agreements and other instruments include subsequent amendments and supplements thereto.
 
"." The term "Additional Amounts" shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.05.
Additional Amounts
 
"" means additional interest owed to the Holders pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
Additional Interest
 
"." The term "Board of Directors" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company, the Executive Committee of the Company or any other committee duly authorized to exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors with respect to this Indenture or any Security.
Board of Directors
 
"." The term "Board of Directors of the Guarantor" shall mean the Board of Directors of the Guarantor, the Executive Committee of the Guarantor or any other committee duly authorized to exercise the powers and authority of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor with respect to this Indenture, including any Guarantee.
Board of Directors of the Guarantor
 
"." The term "Board Resolution" shall mean a resolution certified by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company to have
Board Resolution
been duly adopted by, or pursuant to the authority of, the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
 
"." The term "Board Resolution of the Guarantor" shall mean a resolution certified by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor to have been duly adopted by, or pursuant to the authority of, the Board of Directors of the Guarantor and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee.
Board Resolution of the Guarantor
 
"." The term "Business Day" shall mean, with respect to any Security, a day (other than a Saturday or Sunday) that in the city (or in any of the cities, if more than one) in which amounts are payable, as specified on the face of the form of such Security, is neither a legal holiday nor a day on which banking institutions are authorized or required by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
 
"." The term "Commission" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Exchange Act, or, if at any time after the execution of this Indenture such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time.
Commission
 
"." The term "Company" shall mean the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person.
Company
 
"." The term "Company Order" means a written order signed in the name of the Company by the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Company Order
 
"." The term "Corporate Trust Office" means an office of the Trustee at which at any time its corporate trust business shall be administered, which office at the date hereof is located at 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602 Attention:  Corporate Trust Administration, or such other address as the Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company, or the principal corporate trust office of any successor Trustee (or such other address as such successor Trustee may designate from time to time by notice to the Holders and the Company).
Corporate Trust Office
 
"." The term "covenant defeasance" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.03.
Covenant Defeasance
 
"." The term "defeasance" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.02.
Defeasance
 
"." The term "Depositary" shall mean, with respect to any series of Securities, the clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act that is designated to act
Depositary
as Depositary for the Global Securities evidencing all or part of such Securities as contemplated by Section 2.01.
 
"." The term "dollars" or "$" shall mean a dollar or other equivalent unit of legal tender for payment of public or private debts in the United States of America.
Dollars
 
"." The term "Event of Default" shall mean any event specified as such in or as contemplated by Section 6.01.
Event of Default
 
"." The term "Exchange Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Exchange Act
 
"" means Securities of the Company issued pursuant to this Indenture in exchange for, and in an aggregate principal amount equal to, the Initial Securities or any Initial Additional Securities, in compliance with the terms of the Registration Rights Agreement and containing terms substantially identical to the Initial Securities or any Initial Additional Securities (except that such Exchange Securities (i) will be registered under the Securities Act, (ii) will not be subject to transfer restrictions or bear a Restricted Legend and (iii) will not be subject to the provisions relating to Additional Interest).
Exchange Securities
 
"" means an offer by the Company to the Holders of the Initial Securities or any Initial Additional Securities to exchange outstanding Securities for Exchange Securities, as provided for in the Registration Rights Agreement.
Exchange Offer
 
"." The term "GAAP" and the expression "generally accepted accounting principles" mean, unless otherwise specified with respect to any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01, such accounting principles as are generally accepted in the United States of America as of the date or time of any computation required hereunder.
GAAP
 
"" means a Security in registered global form without interest coupons.
Global Security
 
"." The term "Government Obligation" shall have the meaning specified in Section 13.04.
Government Obligation
 
"." The term "Guarantee" shall have the meaning specified in Article Fifteen.
Guarantee
 
"." The term "Guarantor" shall have the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Indenture, unless a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture, and thereafter the term "Guarantor" shall mean such successor Person.
Guarantor
 
"." The terms "Holder", "Holder of Securities" and "Securityholder", and other similar terms, shall mean the person in whose name at the time a Security is registered on the registration books kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof.
Holder
"." The term "Indenture" shall mean this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof and, with respect to any Security, by the terms and provisions of such Security established pursuant to Section 2.01; , , that, if at any time more than one Person is acting as Trustee under this instrument, "Indenture" shall mean, with respect to any one or more series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee, this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto and shall include the terms of those particular series of Securities for which such Person is Trustee established pursuant to Section 2.01, exclusive, however, of any provisions or terms which relate solely to other series of Securities for which such Person is not Trustee, regardless of when such terms or provisions were adopted.
Indenture
provided
however
 
"" means additional Securities having the same terms in all respects as the Initial Securities except that interest may accrue from a date other than the issue date of the Initial Securities, issued in an offering not registered under the Securities Act and any Securities issued in replacement thereof, but not including any Exchange Securities issued in exchange therefor.
Initial Additional Securities
 
"" means the Securities issued on December 12, 2012 and any Securities issued in replacement thereof, but not including any Exchange Securities issued in exchange therefor.
Initial Securities
 
"." The term "interest" shall mean, in respect of the Securities, unless the context otherwise requires, interest and, with respect to Initial Securities and Initial Additional Securities, Additional Interest, if any.
Interest
 
"." The term "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the stated maturity of an installment of interest on such Security.
Interest Payment Date
 
"" means a Global Security representing Securities issued and sold pursuant to Regulation S.
Offshore Global Security
 
"." The term "Officers' Certificate" shall mean a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company.
Officers' Certificate
 
"." The term "Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor" shall mean a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor or the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor.
Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor
 
"." The term "Opinion of Counsel" shall mean an opinion in writing, reasonably acceptable to the Trustee, signed by legal counsel, who may be an employee of or counsel to the Company or the Guarantor or who may be other counsel.
Opinion of Counsel
"." The term "Original Issue Discount Securities" shall mean a Security issued pursuant to this Indenture which provides for an amount less than the principal face amount thereof to be due and payable upon declaration of acceleration pursuant to Section 6.01.
Original Issue Discount Securities
 
"." The term "Outstanding", when used with reference to Securities, shall, subject to the provisions of Section 8.01 and Section 8.04, mean, as of any particular time, all Securities authenticated and delivered by the Trustee under this Indenture, except
Outstanding
 
(a)
                                
Securities theretofore cancelled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation;
 
(b)
                                
Securities, or portions thereof, for the payment, purchase or redemption of which moneys in the necessary amount (or, to the extent that such Security is payable in Shares or other securities or property, Shares or such other securities or property in the necessary amount, together with, if applicable, cash in lieu of fractional Shares or securities) shall have been deposited in trust with the Trustee or with any paying agent (other than the Company) or shall have been set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own paying agent), provided, that if such Securities are to be redeemed prior to the maturity thereof, notice of such redemption shall have been given as provided in Article Three, or provisions satisfactory to the Trustee shall have been made for giving such notice;
 
(c)
                                 
Securities in lieu of and in substitution for which other Securities shall have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to the terms of Section 2.07, unless proof satisfactory to the Trustee is presented that any such Securities are held by bona fide Holders in due course in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company;
 
(d)
                                
Securities which have been defeased pursuant to Section 13.02; and
 
(e)
                                 
Securities which have been converted or exchanged as contemplated by this Indenture into Shares or other securities or property, if the terms of such Security provide for such conversion or exchange.
 
"." The term "Periodic Offering" means an offering of Securities of a series from time to time the specific terms of which Securities, including without limitation the rate or rates of interest or formula for determining the rate or rates of interest thereon, if any, the stated maturity of the principal amount thereof and the redemption, repurchase or repayment provisions, if any, with respect thereto, are to be determined by the Company upon the issuance of such Securities.
Periodic Offering
 
"." The term "Person" shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
 
"." The term "Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the office or agency of the Company in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, designated and maintained by the Company pursuant to Section 4.02 and such other place or places where the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of that series are payable as specified pursuant to Section 2.01.
Place of Payment
 
"" means (a) the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 12, 2012, among the Company, the Guarantor and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as dealer managers relating to the Initial Securities, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time and (b) any other similar Registration Rights Agreement relating to Initial Additional Securities, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time.
Registration Rights Agreement
 
"" means Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Regulation S
 
"" means a certificate substantially in the form of Annex C hereto.
Regulation S Certificate
 
"." The term "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose pursuant to Sections 2.01 and 2.04.
Regular Record Date
 
"." The term "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, shall mean any vice president, assistant treasurer, trust officer, assistant vice president, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of this Indenture.
Responsible Officer
 
"" means each legend set forth in Annex B.
Restricted Legend
 
"" means the relevant 40-day distribution compliance period as defined in Regulation S.
Restricted Period
 
"
Rule 144A
" means Rule 144A under the Securities Act.
 
"" means (i) a certificate substantially in the form of Annex D hereto or (ii) a written certification addressed to the Company and the Trustee to the effect that the Person making such certification (x) is acquiring such Security (or beneficial interest) for its own account or one or more accounts with respect to which it exercises sole investment discretion and that it and each such account is a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A, (y) is aware that the transfer to it or exchange, as applicable, is being made in reliance upon the exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A, and (z)
Rule 144A Certificate
acknowledges that it has received such information regarding the Company as it has requested pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) or has determined not to request such information.
 
"." The term "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" shall have the respective meanings specified in Section 2.05.
Security Register and Security Registrar
 
"." The term "Shares" shall mean the Class A Ordinary Shares, nominal value $0.01 per share, of the Company authorized at the date of this Indenture as originally signed, or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassifications of such Shares, and in any such case including any shares thereof authorized after the date of this Indenture, and any other shares of the Company which do not have any priority in the payment of dividends or upon liquidation over any other class of shares.
Shares
 
"." The term "Taxes" shall have the meaning specified in Section 4.05.
Taxes
 
"." Except as otherwise provided in Section 10.03, the term "Trust Indenture Act" shall mean the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, as in force at the date of this Indenture as originally executed; , that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, is amended after the date of this Indenture, such term shall mean, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended.
Trust Indenture Act
provided however
 
"." The term "United States" shall mean the United States of America, its territories, possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction, including the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
United States
 
"" means a Global Security that bears the Restricted Legend representing Securities issued and sold pursuant to Rule 144A.
U.S. Global Security
 
Section 2.01.
                                    
Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series
.  The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited.
 
The Securities may be issued in one or more series.  There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution, and set forth in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series:
 
(a)
                                
the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from all other Securities);
 
(b)
                                
any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, in exchange for, or
in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 2.12, 3.03 or 10.04 or, if applicable, upon surrender in part of any Security for conversion or exchange into Shares or other securities or property pursuant to its terms);
 
(c)
                                 
whether any Securities of the series are to be issuable in whole or in part in global form and, if so, (a) whether beneficial owners of interests in any such Global Security may exchange such interests for Securities of such series and of like tenor of any authorized form and denomination and the circumstances under which any such exchanges may occur, if other than in the manner provided in Section 2.05 or 2.12, and (b) the name of the Depositary with respect to any Global Security;
 
(d)
                                
the date or dates on which the principal of the Securities of the series is payable;
 
(e)
                                 
the rate or rates, which may be fixed or variable, at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, and if the rate is variable, the manner of calculation thereof, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue, the Interest Payment Dates on which such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for the determination of Holders of such Securities to whom interest is payable on any Interest Payment Date;
 
(f)
                                  
whether Securities of the series are entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee pursuant to Article Fifteen of this Indenture;
 
(g)
                                 
the place or places (in addition to such place or places specified in this Indenture) where the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on Securities of the series shall be payable;
 
(h)
                                
the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, repurchased or repaid, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company, pursuant to any sinking fund or otherwise;
 
(i)
                                    
the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem, repurchase or repay Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which and the terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed, repurchased, or repaid, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation, and, where applicable, the obligation of the Company to select the Securities to be redeemed, repurchased or repaid;
 
(j)
                                   
if other than dollars, the currency or currencies, currency units or composite currency in which the Securities of the series shall be denominated and in which payments of principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on and any other amounts payable with respect to such Securities shall or may be payable and, if applicable, the date or dates on which, the period or periods within which, and the other terms and conditions upon which, any such election may be made, and the time and manner of determining the exchange rate between the currency in which such Securities
are stated to be payable and the currency in which such Securities or any of them are to be paid pursuant to such election, and any deletions from or modifications of or additions to the terms of this Indenture to provide for or to facilitate the issuance of Securities denominated or payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof or otherwise, in a currency other than dollars;
 
(k)
                                
the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable, if other than $1,000 or integral multiples thereof;
 
(l)
                                    
if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the maturity thereof pursuant to Section 6.01 or which the Trustee shall be entitled to claim pursuant to Section 6.02;
 
(m)
                            
if either or both of Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be inapplicable to the Securities of the series ( that if no such inapplicability shall be specified, then both Section 13.02 and Section 13.03 shall be applicable to the Securities of the series);
provided
 
(n)
                                
any deletions from, modifications of or additions to the Events of Default or covenants of the Company and the Guarantor with respect to any Securities of the series (whether or not such Events of Default or covenants are consistent with the Events of Default or covenants set forth herein);
 
(o)
                                
whether the Securities of the series will be convertible into and/or exchangeable for Shares or other securities or property and, if so, the terms and conditions upon which such Securities will be so convertible or exchangeable, and any deletions from or modifications or additions to this Indenture to permit or to facilitate the issuance of such convertible or exchangeable Securities or the administration thereof; and
 
(p)
                                
any other terms of the Securities of the series.
 
All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except (i) as to denomination and (ii) as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to such Board Resolution and set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in such Officers' Certificate or in any such indenture supplemental hereto.
 
If any of the terms of the Securities of any series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Corporate Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at the same time as or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth the terms of the series.
 
Securities of any particular series may be issued at various times, and may have different dates on which the principal or any installment of principal is payable, different rates of interest, if any, or different methods by which rates of interest may be determined, different dates on which such interest may be payable, different redemption, repurchase or repayment dates, and such other differences as are provided in or pursuant
to the Board Resolution establishing the series, and any Officer's Certificate, or any indenture supplemental hereto relating to such Securities.
 
With respect to Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, the Board Resolution (or action taken pursuant thereto), any Officers' Certificate or any supplemental indenture relating to such Securities may provide general terms or parameters for some or all of the Securities of such series and provide either that the specific terms of particular Securities of such series shall be specified in a Company Order or that such terms shall be determined by the Company in accordance with other procedures specified in a Company Order as contemplated by the fourth paragraph of Section 2.03.
 
Section 2.02.
                                    
Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication
.  The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in the following form:
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
Section 2.03.
                                    
Form, Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating of Securities
.  The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the forms approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, or established in one or more Officers' Certificates or indentures supplemental hereto, and shall be printed, lithographed, engraved or otherwise produced in such manner as the officers executing the same may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities.  Such Securities may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification or designation and such legends or endorsements printed, lithographed, engraved or otherwise produced thereon as the Company may deem appropriate and as are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, or as may be required to comply with any law or with any rule or regulation made pursuant thereto or with any rule or regulation of any stock exchange on which the Securities may be listed, or to conform to usage.
 
Each Security shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or its Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or its President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President and by its Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer or its Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, under its corporate seal.  Such signatures may be the manual or facsimile signatures of the present or any future such
officers.  The seal of the Company may be in the form of a facsimile thereof and may be impressed, affixed, imprinted or otherwise reproduced on the Securities.
 
With respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the notation of the Guarantee endorsed on such Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Guarantor by its Chairman, its President, any of its Vice Presidents or by its Treasurer. The signature of any of these officers on the notation of Guarantee may be manual or facsimile.
 
Each Security and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, each notation of Guarantee bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall bind the Company and the Guarantor, respectively, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Security or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the notation of Guarantee.  At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with such Company Order shall authenticate and deliver such Securities; , that in the case of Securities offered in a Periodic Offering, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver such Securities from time to time in accordance with such other procedures acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified by or pursuant to a Company Order delivered to the Trustee prior to the time of the first authentication of Securities of such series.  If the form or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by this Section and Section 2.01, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be given, and (subject to Section 7.01) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Officers' Certificate pursuant to Section 16.04 and an Opinion of Counsel stating:
provided, however
 
(a)
                                
if the form of such Securities has been established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.01, that such form has been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture;
 
(b)
                                
if the terms of such Securities have been or, in the case of Securities offered in a Periodic Offering, will be established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 2.01, that such terms have been or, in the case of Securities offered in a Periodic Offering, will be established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture subject, in the case of Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel; and
 
(c)
                                 
that each such Security, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute a valid and legally binding obligation of the Company
and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantee will constitute valid and binding obligations of the Guarantor in each case, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium and other laws of general applicability relating to or affecting the enforcement of creditors' rights and to general equity principles.
 
If such form has or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and the Indenture or otherwise in a manner which is not reasonably acceptable to the Trustee.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.01 and of the immediately preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 2.01 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to the immediately preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued.
 
With respect to Securities of a series offered in a Periodic Offering, the Trustee may rely, as to the authorization by the Company of any of such Securities, the form and terms thereof and the legality, validity, binding effect and enforceability thereof, upon the Opinion of Counsel and the other documents delivered pursuant to Sections 2.01 and this Section 2.03, as applicable, in connection with the first authentication of Securities of such series.
 
Every Security shall be dated the date of its authentication.
 
No Security or the Guarantee thereof, if applicable, shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein executed by the Trustee by manual signature, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder and, together with the Guarantee thereof, if applicable, is entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 2.09, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture.
 
Section 2.04.
                                    
Currency; Denominations; Regular Record Date
.  Unless provided otherwise pursuant to Section 2.01 and Section 2.03, as applicable, the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities shall be payable in dollars.
The Securities shall be issuable in such denominations as may be specified as contemplated in Section 2.01.  In the absence of any such specification with respect to any series, such Securities shall be issuable in the denominations contemplated by Section 2.01.
 
The term "Regular Record Date" as used with respect to an Interest Payment Date (except a date for payment of defaulted interest) shall mean such day or days as shall be specified in the terms of the Securities of any particular series as contemplated by Section 2.01; provided, however, that in the absence of any such provisions with respect to any series, such term shall mean (a) the last day of the calendar month next preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the fifteenth day of a calendar month; or (b) the fifteenth day of a calendar month next preceding such Interest Payment Date if such Interest Payment Date is the first day of the calendar month; provided, further, that if the day which would be the Regular Record Date as provided herein shall be a day on which banking institutions in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York are authorized by law or required by executive order to close, then it shall mean the next preceding day which shall not be a day on which such institutions are so authorized or required to close.
 
The person in whose name any Security is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date with respect to an Interest Payment Date shall be entitled to receive the interest payable on such Interest Payment Date notwithstanding the cancellation of such Security upon any transfer or exchange thereof subsequent to such Regular Record Date and prior to such Interest Payment Date; provided, however, that if and to the extent the Company and, if the provisions of Article Fifteen apply to such Security, the Guarantor shall default in the payment of the interest due on such Interest Payment Date and such defaulted interest shall cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the persons in whose names Outstanding Securities are registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date established by notice given by mail by or on behalf of the Company to the Holders of Securities of the series in default not less than fifteen (15) days preceding such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five (5) days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee.
 
Section 2.05.
                                    
Exchange and Registration of Transfer of Securities
.  Except as set forth in Section 2.12, Securities of any series may be exchanged for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of other authorized denominations of such series.  Securities to be exchanged shall be surrendered at the office or agency to be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02, and the Company shall execute and register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange therefor the Security or Securities which the Holder making the exchange shall be entitled to receive.
The Company (or its designated agent (the "Security Registrar")) shall keep, at such office or agency, a Security Register (the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall register Securities and shall register the transfer of Securities as in this Article Two provided.  The Security Register shall be in written form or in any other form capable of being converted into written form within a reasonable time.  At all reasonable times the Security Register shall be open for inspection by the Trustee.  Upon due presentment for registration of transfer of any Security of a particular series at such office or agency, the Company shall execute and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall execute and the Company or the Security Registrar shall register and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in the name of the transferee or transferees a new Security or Securities of such series for an equal aggregate principal amount and stated maturity.
 
All Securities presented for registration of transfer or for exchange, redemption, repurchase or repayment, as the case may be, shall (if so required by the Company or the Trustee) be duly endorsed by, or be accompanied by a written instrument or instruments of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder or his attorney duly authorized in writing.
 
All Securities and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the notation of Guarantee thereof issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligation of the Company and, with respect to any Guarantee, the Guarantor, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange.
 
No service charge shall be made for any exchange or registration of transfer of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection therewith.
 
The Company shall not be required to issue, exchange or register a transfer of (a) any Securities of any series for a period of fifteen (15) days next preceding any selection of such Securities of such series to be redeemed, repurchased, or repaid, or (b) any Security of any such series selected for redemption, repayment or repurchase in whole or in part except, in the case of any such series to be redeemed, repurchased or repaid in part, the portion thereof not to be so redeemed, repurchased or repaid.
 
Section 2.06.
                                    
Temporary Securities
.  Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute and, upon receipt of a Company Order, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver temporary Securities of such series (printed, lithographed, typewritten or otherwise produced).  Temporary Securities of any series shall be issuable in any authorized denominations, and substantially in the form approved from time to time by or pursuant to a Board Resolution but with such omissions, insertions, substitutions and variations as may be appropriate for temporary Securities, all as may be determined by the officers executing such temporary Securities, such determination to be evidenced by such execution.  Every temporary Security shall
be executed by the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the notation of Guarantee thereon shall be executed by the Guarantor, and such temporary Security shall be authenticated by the Trustee, in each case, upon the same conditions and in substantially the same manner, and with like effect, as the definitive Securities.  Except in the case of temporary Securities in global form (which, except as otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01, shall be exchanged in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.05), without unnecessary delay the Company shall execute and shall furnish definitive Securities of such series evidenced by the temporary Securities and thereupon any or all temporary Securities of such series may be surrendered in exchange therefor without charge at the office or agency to be designated and maintained by the Company for such purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.02, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver in exchange for such temporary Securities an equal aggregate principal amount of definitive Securities of the same series and stated maturity of authorized denominations.  Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series.
 
If temporary Securities of any series are issued in global form, any such temporary Global Security shall, unless otherwise provided therein pursuant to Section 2.01, be delivered to the office of the Depositary designated for such temporary Global Security for credit to the respective accounts of the beneficial owners of such Securities (or to such other accounts as they may direct).
 
Section 2.07.
                                    
Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Securities
.  In case any temporary or definitive Security of any series shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor in the case of a mutilated Security shall, and in the case of a lost, stolen or destroyed Security may, in its discretion, execute, and upon receipt of a Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, a new Security of the same series and stated maturities of principal and interest as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security, bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding, in exchange and substitution for the mutilated Security, or in lieu of and in substitution for the Security so destroyed, lost or stolen. In every case the applicant for a substituted Security shall furnish to the Company and to the Trustee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them harmless, and, in every case of destruction, loss or theft, the applicant shall also furnish to the Company and to the Trustee evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security, as the case may be, and of the ownership thereof.  The Trustee may authenticate any such substituted Security and deliver the same upon the written request or authorization of any officer of the Company.  Upon the issuance of any substituted Security, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses connected therewith and in addition a further sum not exceeding ten dollars for each Security so issued in substitution.  In case any Security which has matured or is about to mature shall become mutilated or be destroyed, lost or stolen, the Company may, instead of issuing a substituted Security, pay or authorize the payment of the same (without surrender thereof
except in the case of a mutilated Security) if the applicant for such payment shall furnish the Company and the Trustee with such security or indemnity as they may require to save each of them harmless and, in case of destruction, loss or theft, evidence to the satisfaction of the Company of the destruction, loss or theft of such Security and of the ownership thereof.
 
Every substituted Security, together with the notation of any Guarantee thereof, issued pursuant to the provisions of this Section by virtue of the fact that any Security is destroyed, lost or stolen shall, with respect to such Security, constitute an additional contractual obligation of the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor whether or not the destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be found at any time, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities duly issued hereunder.
 
All Securities shall be held and owned upon the express condition that the foregoing provisions are exclusive with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities appertaining thereto and shall, to the extent permitted by law, preclude any and all other rights or remedies, notwithstanding any law or statute existing or hereafter enacted to the contrary with respect to the replacement or payment of negotiable instruments or other securities without their surrender.
 
Section 2.08.
                                    
Securities in Global Form
.  If Securities of a series are issuable in global form, then, notwithstanding the provisions of Section 2.01, any such Security shall represent such of the Outstanding Securities of such series as shall be specified therein and may provide that it shall represent the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities from time to time endorsed thereon and that the aggregate amount of Outstanding Securities represented thereby may from time to time be reduced to reflect exchanges.  Any endorsement of a Security in global form to reflect the amount, or any increase or decrease in the amount, of Outstanding Securities represented thereby shall be made by the Trustee in such manner and upon instructions given by such Person as shall be specified therein or in the Company Order to be delivered to the Trustee pursuant to Section 2.03 or Section 2.06.
 
Section 2.09.
                                    
Cancellation
.  All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, repurchase, repayment, exchange or registration of transfer or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to the Company or any agent of the Company or of the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee and promptly cancelled by it or, if surrendered to the Trustee, be cancelled by it, and no Securities shall be issued in lieu thereof except as expressly permitted by or pursuant to any of the provisions of this Indenture.  The Trustee shall dispose of cancelled Securities in its customary manner and, upon written request, deliver a certificate of such disposal to the Company or, if requested to do so by the Company, shall return such cancelled Securities to the Company.
 
Section 2.10.
                                    
Computation of Interest
.  Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 2.01 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months.
 
Section 2.11.
                                    
CUSIP Numbers
.  The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption, repurchase or repayment as a convenience to Holders; that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption, repurchase or repayment and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption, repurchase or repayment shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such numbers.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee in writing of any change in the "CUSIP" numbers.
provided
 
Section 2.12.
                                    
Restrictions on Transfer and Exchange. 
(a) The transfer or exchange of any Security (or a beneficial interest therein) may only be made in accordance with this Section and Section 2.05 hereof and, in the case of a Global Security (or a beneficial interest therein), the applicable rules and procedures of the Depositary.  The Trustee shall refuse to register any requested transfer or exchange that does not comply with the preceding sentence.
 
(b)
                                
Subject to paragraph (c), the transfer or exchange of any Security (or a beneficial interest therein) of the type set forth in column A below for a Security (or a beneficial interest therein) of the type set forth opposite in column B below may only be made in compliance with the certification requirements (if any) described in the clause of this paragraph set forth opposite in column C below.
 
 
(1)
                      
No certification is required.
 
(2)
                      
The Person requesting the transfer or exchange must deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee a duly completed Regulation S Certificate.
 
(3)
                  
The Person requesting the transfer or exchange must deliver or cause to be delivered to the Trustee a duly completed Rule 144A Certificate.
 
(c)
                                 
No certification is required in connection with any transfer or exchange of any Security (or a beneficial interest therein)
 
(1)
                                
after such Security is eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or a successor provision) without the need for current public information; that the Company has provided the Trustee
provided
with an Officers' Certificate to that effect, and the Company or Trustee may require from any Person requesting a transfer or exchange in reliance upon this clause (1) an Opinion of Counsel and any other reasonable certifications and evidence in order to support such certificate; or
 
(2)(x)
                 
sold pursuant to an effective registration statement, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise or (y) which is validly tendered for exchange into an Exchange Security pursuant to an Exchange Offer.
 
(d)
                                
The Trustee will retain copies of all certificates, opinions and other documents received in connection with the transfer or exchange of a Security (or a beneficial interest therein), and the Company will have the right to inspect and make copies thereof at any reasonable time upon written notice to the Trustee.
 
(e)
                                 
Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c) and (f) hereof, each Initial Security will bear a Restricted Legend.
 
(f)
                                  
(1) If the Company determines (upon the advice of counsel and such other certifications and evidence as the Company may reasonably require) that a Security (or beneficial interest therein) is eligible for resale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or a successor provision) without the need for current public information and that a Restricted Legend is no longer necessary or appropriate in order to ensure that subsequent transfers of the Security (or a beneficial interest therein) are effected in compliance with the Securities Act, or
 
(2)
                                
after an Initial Security or any Initial Additional Security is sold pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act, pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement or otherwise,
 
the Company may instruct the Trustee to cancel the Security (or reduce the balance thereof to the extent only a portion thereof is to be exchanged) and issue (in accordance with Depository Trust Company procedures governing such an exchange) to the Holder thereof (or to its transferee) a new Security of like tenor and amount, registered in the name of the Holder thereof (or its transferee), that does not bear a Restricted Legend, and the Trustee will comply with such instruction.
 
(g)
                                 
After an Initial Security or any Initial Additional Security is validly tendered for exchange into an Exchange Security pursuant to an Exchange Offer, the Company may instruct the Trustee to cancel such Initial Security or Initial Additional Security, and the Trustee will comply with such instruction.
 
(h)
                                
By its acceptance of any Security bearing a Restricted Legend (or any beneficial interest in such a Security), each Holder thereof and each owner of a beneficial interest therein acknowledges the restrictions on transfer of such Security (and any such beneficial interest) set forth in this Indenture and in such Restricted Legend and agrees that it will transfer such Security (and any such beneficial interest) only in accordance with the Indenture and such legend.
Section 3.01.
                                    
Redemption of Securities; Applicability of Article
.  Redemption of Securities of any series as permitted or required by the terms thereof shall be made in accordance with such terms and this Article; provided, however, that if any provision of any series of Securities shall conflict with any provision of this Article, the provisions of such series of Securities shall govern.
 
Section 3.02.
                                    
Tax Redemption
.  The Company shall have the option to redeem the Securities of any series, in whole but not in part, at a redemption price equal to the principal amount thereof plus accrued but unpaid interest to the date of redemption, if, with respect to such series:
 
(a)
                                
the Company determines that, as a result of:
 
(i)
                                    
any change in, amendment to, or announced proposed change in the laws or any regulations or rulings promulgated thereunder of the United Kingdom (or of any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) or, in the event of the assumption of the obligations of the Company hereunder and under the Securities by a successor Person not organized under the laws of the United States or the United Kingdom (or in each case, any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) in accordance with Section 11.01, the jurisdiction in which such successor Person is organized (or deemed resident for tax purposes); or
 
(ii)
                                 
any change in the application or official interpretation of such laws, regulations or rulings, or any change in the application or official interpretation of, or any execution of or amendment to, any treaty or treaties affecting taxation to which any such jurisdiction is a party, which change, execution or amendment becomes effective on or after (i) the issue date of the Securities, (ii) in the event of the assumption of the obligations of the Company hereunder and under the Securities by a successor Person not organized under the laws of the United States or the United Kingdom (or, in each case, any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof), with respect to taxes imposed by such other jurisdiction, in accordance with Section 11.01, the date of the transaction resulting in such assumption or (iii) such other date specified in the Securities of such series,
 
it would be required to pay Additional Amounts with respect to such series of Securities on the next succeeding Interest Payment Date and the payment of such Additional Amounts cannot be avoided by the use of reasonable measures available to the Company or such successor Person; or
 
(b)
                                
the Company determines, based upon an opinion of independent counsel of recognized standing that, as a result of any action taken by any legislative body of, taxing authority of, or any action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in, the United Kingdom (or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) or, in the event
of the assumption of the obligations of the Company hereunder and under the Securities by a successor Person not organized under the laws of the United States or the United Kingdom (or in each case, any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) in accordance with Section 11.01, the jurisdiction in which such successor Person is organized (or deemed resident for tax purposes), which action is taken or brought on or after (i) the issue date of the Securities, (ii) in the event of the assumption of the obligations of the Company hereunder and under the Securities by a successor Person not organized under the laws of the United States or the United Kingdom (or, in each case, any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof) in accordance with Section 11.01, with respect to taxes imposed by such other jurisdiction, the date of the transaction resulting in such assumption or (iii) such other date specified in the Securities of such series, that there is a substantial probability that the circumstances described in subsection (a) above would exist.
 
(c)
                                 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture, no notice of redemption pursuant to clause (a) or (b) of this Section 3.02 may be given earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the earliest date on which the Company would be obligated to pay Additional Amounts as contemplated by clause (a) or (b), as the case may be.
 
(d)
                                
The Company will also pay to each Holder, or make available for payment to each such Holder, on the redemption date any Additional Amounts resulting from the payment of such redemption price.
 
(e)
                                 
Prior to the delivery of any notice of redemption pursuant to this Section 3.02, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officer's Certificate stating that the Company is entitled to effect or cause a redemption and setting forth a statement of facts showing that the conditions precedent of the right so to redeem or cause such redemption have occurred and, if the redemption is pursuant to clause (b) above, the opinion of independent counsel referred to in such clause (b), which shall be in a form satisfactory to the Trustee. Once the Company delivers such an Officer's Certificate to the Trustee, any notice of redemption that has been given shall be irrevocable.
 
Section 3.03.
                                    
Notice of Redemption; Selection of Securities
.  In case the Company shall desire to exercise the right to redeem all or, as the case may be, any part of a series of Securities pursuant to this Article Three or the terms and provisions otherwise applicable to such series, it shall fix a date for redemption, it shall prepare the notice of such redemption and it shall mail or, at the Company's request and expense, the Trustee shall mail such notice of redemption at least thirty (30) and not more than ninety (90) days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the Holders of the Securities and, in the case of Securities in global form, to the Depositary of such series which are Securities to be redeemed as a whole or in part at their last addresses as the same appear on the Security Register.  Such mailing shall be by prepaid first class mail.  Any notice which is mailed in the manner herein provided shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder shall have received such notice.  In any case, failure to give notice by mail, or any defect in the notice to the Holder of any Security of a series designated for redemption as a whole or in part shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other Security of such series.
Each notice of redemption shall specify the date fixed for redemption, the redemption price at which the applicable Securities are to be redeemed, the Place of Payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of such Securities and that on and after said date interest, if any, thereon or on the portions thereof to be redeemed will cease to accrue.  In case any Security is to be redeemed in part only, the notice of redemption shall state the portion of the principal amount thereof to be redeemed and shall state that, upon surrender of such Security, a new Security or Securities in principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion thereof will be issued of the same series. In the case of Securities of any series that are convertible or exchangeable into Shares or other securities or property, the notice of redemption shall state the then current conversion or exchange price or rate, the date or dates on which the right to convert or exchange the principal of the Securities of such series to be redeemed shall commence or terminate, as applicable, and the place or places where and the Persons to whom such Securities may be surrendered for conversion or exchange.
 
Prior to the redemption date specified in the notice of redemption given as provided in this Section, the Company or, if the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply to the Securities to be redeemed, the Guarantor will deposit in trust with the Trustee or with one or more paying agents (or, if the Company is acting as its own paying agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 4.03) an amount of money sufficient to redeem on the redemption date all the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption at the appropriate redemption price, together with accrued interest, if any, to the date fixed for redemption.  The Company will give the Trustee notice of each redemption at least forty-five (45) days prior to the date fixed for redemption (unless a shorter notice is acceptable to the Trustee) as to the aggregate principal amount of Securities to be redeemed.
 
If less than all of the Securities of a series are to be redeemed, the Securities shall be selected by lot by the Depository Trust Company in the case of Securities represented by Global Securities or the Trustee shall select, in such manner as it shall deem appropriate and fair and, if applicable, in accordance with the procedures of the Depositary, the Securities of such series to be redeemed in the case of Securities not represented by Global Securities; , that no such partial redemption shall reduce the portion of the principal amount of a Security of such series not redeemed to less than the minimum denomination for a Security of such series established herein or pursuant hereto. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities of such series selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities of such series selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed.
provided. however
 
Section 3.04.
                                    
Payment of Securities Called for Redemption
.  If notice of redemption has been given as above provided, the Securities or portions of Securities with respect to which such notice has been given shall become due and payable on the date and at the Place of Payment stated in such notice at the applicable redemption price
and on and after said date (unless the Company and, if the provisions of Article Fifteen apply to the Securities to be redeemed, the Guarantor shall default in the payment of the applicable redemption price) interest on the Securities or portions of Securities so called for redemption shall cease to accrue.  On presentation and surrender of such Securities subject to redemption at said Place of Payment in said notice specified, the said Securities or the specified portions thereof called for redemption shall be paid and redeemed by the Company at the applicable redemption price.  Interest, if any, payable on an Interest Payment Date that occurs on or prior to the date fixed for redemption shall continue to be payable (but without interest thereon unless the Company shall default in payment thereof) to the Holders thereof registered as such on the Security Register on the relevant Regular Record Date for such Interest Payment Date subject to the terms and provisions of Section 2.04.  At the option of the Company, payment may be made by check, wire transfer or other electronic means to (or to the order of) the Holders of the Securities or other persons entitled thereto against presentation and surrender of such Securities.
 
Upon presentation of any Security redeemed in part only (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Company, a new Security or Securities of the same series and stated maturity, of authorized denominations, in aggregate principal amount equal to the unredeemed portion of the Security so presented.
 
Section 4.01.
                                    
Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest
.  The Company will duly and punctually pay or cause to be paid the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on each of the Securities, whether payable in cash, Shares or other securities or property, at the place, at the respective times and in the manner provided in the terms of the applicable Securities and in this Indenture.  The interest on Securities shall be payable only to or upon the written order of the Holders thereof and at the option of the Company may be paid by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks for such interest payable to or upon the order of such Holders at their last addresses as they appear on the Security Register for such Securities.
 
Section 4.02.
                                    
Offices for Notices and Payments, etc
.  As long as any of the Securities of a series remain outstanding, the Company will designate and maintain, in the City of Chicago and the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, an office or agency where the Securities of such series may be presented for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided, an office or agency where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of such series or of this Indenture may be served, and an office or agency where the Securities of such series may be presented for payment.  The Company will give to the Trustee notice of the location of each such office or agency and of any change in the location thereof.  In case the
Company shall fail to maintain any such office or agency in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, or shall fail to give such notice of the location or of any change in the location thereof, presentations may be made and notices and demands may be served at the corporate trust office of the Trustee in the City of Chicago and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, notices and demands.
 
The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligations to maintain an office or agency in each place of payment for Securities of any series for such purposes.  The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency.
 
The Company hereby initially designates The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., located at 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602 and [                                          ] as a Security Registrar and as the office or agency of the Company in the City of Chicago and the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, respectively, where the Securities may be presented for payment and for registration of transfer and for exchange as in this Indenture provided and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of any series or of this Indenture may be served.
 
Section 4.03.
                                    
Provisions as to Paying Agent.
 
(a)
                                
Whenever the Company shall appoint a paying agent other than the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series, it will cause such paying agent to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section,
 
(i)
                                    
that it will comply with the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act applicable to it as a paying agent,
 
(ii)
                                 
that it will hold sums held by it as such agent for the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of such series in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series entitled thereto and will notify the Trustee of the receipt of sums to be so held,
 
(iii)
                              
that it will give the Trustee notice of any failure by the Company (or by any other obligor on the Securities of such series) to make any payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of such series when the same shall be due and payable, and
 
(iv)
                             
at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such paying agent.
(b)
                                
If the Company shall act as its own paying agent, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of any series set aside, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay such principal, premium, or interest so becoming due.  The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any failure to take such action.
 
(c)
                                 
Whenever the Company shall have one or more paying agents for any series of Securities, it will, prior to each due date of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any Securities of that series, deposit with a paying agent a sum sufficient to pay such principal, premium, or interest, so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such paying agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act.
 
(d)
                                
Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company may, at any time, for the purpose of obtaining a satisfaction and discharge with respect to one or more or all series of this Indenture, or for any other reason, pay or cause to be paid to the Trustee all sums held in trust by it or any paying agent hereunder as required by this Section, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the trusts herein contained.
 
(e)
                                 
Anything in this Section to the contrary notwithstanding, the agreement to hold sums in trust as provided in this Section is subject to the provisions of Sections 12.02 and 12.03.
 
(f)
                                  
To the extent that the terms of any Securities established pursuant to Section 2.01 provide that any principal of or premium or interest, if any, on any such Securities is or may be payable in Shares or other securities or property, then the provisions of this Section 4.03 shall apply, , to such Shares or other securities or property.
mutatis mutandis
 
Section 4.04.
                                    
Statement by Officers as to Default
.  The Company will deliver to the Trustee, on or before a date not more than four months after the end of each fiscal year of the Company ending after the date hereof, an Officers' Certificate, which shall include the statements provided for in Section 16.04 and stating whether or not to the best knowledge of the signers thereof the Company is in default in the performance or observance of any of the terms, provisions and conditions of this Indenture to be performed or observed by it and, if the Company shall be in default, specifying all such defaults and the nature thereof of which they may have knowledge.
 
Section 4.05.
                                    
Payment of Additional Amounts.
 
(a)
                                
Subject to 4.05(b), below, all payments of principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all Securities shall be free and clear of and without withholding or deduction for or on account of any present or future income, stamp or other tax, duty, levy, impost, assessment or other governmental charge of any nature whatsoever imposed or levied by or on behalf of the government of the United Kingdom,
any territory of the United Kingdom or any authority or agency therein or thereof having the power to tax (collectively, "Taxes"), except to the extent such Taxes are required to be withheld or deducted by law or by the interpretation or administration thereof.
 
If the Company or the Paying Agent is so required to withhold or deduct any amount for or on account of Taxes from any payment made in respect of the Securities, the Company shall pay such additional amounts ("Additional Amounts") as may be necessary such that the net amount received by each Holder (including such Additional Amounts), after such withholding or deduction, shall not be less than the amount such Holder would have received if the withholding or deduction had not been made; that no Additional Amounts will be payable with respect to Taxes:
provided
 
(i)
                                    
that would not have been imposed but for the existence of any present or former connection between such Holder or beneficial owner of the Securities (or between a fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member or shareholder of, or possessor of a power over, such Holder or beneficial owner, if such Holder or beneficial owner is an estate, trust, partnership or corporation) and the United Kingdom or any political subdivision or territory or possession thereof or therein or area subject to its jurisdiction, including, without limitation, such Holder or beneficial owner (or such fiduciary, settlor, beneficiary, member, shareholder or possessor) being or having been a citizen or resident thereof or treated as a resident thereof or domiciled thereof or a national thereof or being or having been present or engaged in trade or business therein or having or having had a permanent establishment therein;
 
(ii)
                                 
that are estate, inheritance, gift, sales, transfer, personal property, wealth or similar taxes, duties, assessments or other governmental charges;
 
(iii)
                              
payable other than by withholding from payments of principal of and premium, if any, or interest on the Securities;
 
(iv)
                             
that would not have been imposed but for the failure of the applicable recipient of such payment to comply with any certification, identification, information, documentation or other reporting requirement to the extent
 
(A)
                              
such compliance is required by applicable law or administrative practice or an applicable treaty as a precondition to exemption from, or reduction in, the rate of deduction or withholding of such Taxes, and
 
(B)
                              
at least thirty (30) days before the first payment date with respect to which such Additional Amounts shall be payable, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall have notified such recipient in writing that such recipient shall be required to comply with such requirement;
 
(v)           that would not have been imposed but for the presentation of a Security (where presentation is required) for payment on a date more than thirty (30) days after the date on which such payment became due and payable or the date on which payment thereof was duly provided for, whichever occurred later;
 
(vi)          that are imposed on a payment to an individual and are required to be made pursuant to any European Union Directive on the taxation of savings income relating to the proposal for a directive on the taxation of savings income published by the ECOFIN Council on December 13, 2001 or any other directive implementing the conclusions of the ECOFIN Council meeting of November 26-27, 2000 on the taxation of savings income, or any law implementing or complying with, or introduced in order to conform to, such a directive;
 
(vii)         that would not have been imposed if presentation for payment of the relevant Securities had been made to a paying agent other than the paying agent to which the presentation was made; or
 
(viii)        any combination of the foregoing clauses (i) through (vii);
 
nor shall Additional Amounts be paid with respect to any payment of principal of or interest, on any Securities to any such Holder who is a fiduciary or a partnership or a beneficial owner who is other than the sole beneficial owner of such payment to the extent a beneficiary or settlor with respect to such fiduciary or a member of such partnership or a beneficial owner would not have been entitled to such Additional Amounts had it been the Holder of the Security.
 
(b)           Notwithstanding Section 4.05(a), following the issuance of the Exchange Securities pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement, Additional Amounts in respect of withholding or deduction on interest paid after such issuance shall only be payable (i) where the Securities with respect to which the payment subject to withholding or deduction is made (the "Relevant Notes") are listed on a "recognized stock exchange" within the meaning of section 1005 of the Income Tax Act 2007, or (ii) to the extent that the Exchange Securities not being so listed results in any payments with respect to the Relevant Notes being subject to a withholding or deduction in respect of Taxes.  However, this limitation on the Company's obligation to pay Additional Amounts shall only apply to withholdings or deductions for or on account of Taxes to the extent that such withholdings or deductions would not be required if the Relevant Notes were listed on a "recognized stock exchange," as defined in the previous sentence.
 
(c)           All references in this Indenture, other than in Articles Twelve or Thirteen, to the principal of or premium, if any, or interest, if any, on or the net proceeds received on the sale or exchange of, any Securities shall be deemed to include Additional Amounts to the extent that, in that context, Additional Amounts are, were or would be payable.
 
(d)           The Company shall maintain, in respect of Securities of each series outstanding, at least one paying agent located outside the United Kingdom. In the event that a paying agent with respect to Securities of a particular series is maintained in any
member state of the European Union, the Company shall maintain a paying agent in at least one member state (other than the United Kingdom) that will not be obliged to withhold or deduct taxes pursuant to any law implementing European Council Directive 2003/48/EC or any other directive implementing the conclusions of the ECOFIN Council meeting of November 26-27, 2000 on the taxation of savings income, provided there is at least one member state that does not require a paying agent to withhold or deduct pursuant to such directive.
 
(e)           The obligation of the Company to pay Additional Amounts if and when due will survive the termination of this Indenture and the payment of all other amounts in respect of the Securities.
 
(f)            If, as a result of any consolidation, merger, conversion, conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 11.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation, merger, or conversion, or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made is not organized under the laws of the United Kingdom, such successor Person will pay Additional Amounts on the same basis set forth in this Section 4.05, except that references to the "United Kingdom" will be treated as references to both the United Kingdom and the country in which such successor Person is organized or resident (or deemed resident for tax purposes).
 
Section 5.01.        Securityholder Lists
.  The Company covenants and agrees that it will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee with respect to the Securities of each series:
 
(a)           semi-annually, not later than each Interest Payment Date (in the case of any series having semi-annual Interest Payment Dates) or not later than the dates determined pursuant to Section 2.01 (in the case of any series not having semi-annual Interest Payment Dates), a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of such series as of the Regular Record Date (or as of such other date as may be determined pursuant to Section 2.01 for such series) therefor, that the Company shall not be obligated to furnish or cause to furnish such list at any time that the list shall not differ in any respect from the most recent list furnished to the Trustee by the Company; and
provided
 
(b)           at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within thirty (30) days after receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of the particular series specified by the Trustee as of a date not more than fifteen (15) days prior to the time such information is furnished;
provided, however, that in the case of clauses (a) and (b), if and so long as the Trustee shall be the Security Registrar, any such list shall exclude names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar, and such list shall not be required to be furnished.
 
Section 5.02.        Preservation and Disclosure of Lists.
 
(a)           The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, all information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of each series of Securities contained in the most recent list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 or received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar.  The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 5.01 upon receipt of a new list so furnished.
 
(b)           In case three or more Holders of Securities of a series (hereinafter referred to as "applicants") apply in writing to the Trustee and furnish to the Trustee reasonable proof that each such applicant has owned a Security of such series for a period of at least six months preceding the date of such application, and such application states that the applicants' desire to communicate with other Holders of Securities of such series or with Holders of all Securities with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under such Securities and it is accompanied by a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which such applicants propose to transmit, then the Trustee shall, within five (5) Business Days after the receipt of such application, at its election, either
 
(i)            afford to such applicants access to the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, or
 
(ii)           inform such applicants as to the approximate number of Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose names and addresses appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, and as to the approximate cost of mailing to such Securityholders the form of proxy or other communication, if any, specified in such application.
 
If the Trustee shall elect not to afford to such applicants access to such information, the Trustee shall, upon the written request of such applicants, mail to each Holder of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, whose name and address appear in the information preserved at the time by the Trustee in accordance with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section a copy of the form of proxy or other communication which is specified in such request, with reasonable promptness after a tender to the Trustee of the material to be mailed and of payment, or provision for the payment, of the reasonable expenses of mailing, unless within five (5) days after such tender, the Trustee shall mail to such applicants and file with the Commission, together with a copy of the material to be mailed, a written statement to the effect that, in the opinion of the Trustee, such mailing would be contrary to the best interests of the Holders of Securities of such series or all Securities, as the case may be, or would be in violation of applicable law.  Such written statement shall specify the basis of such opinion.  If the
Commission, after opportunity for a hearing upon the objections specified in the written statement so filed, shall enter an order refusing to sustain any of such objections or if, after the entry of an order sustaining one or more of such objections, the Commission shall find, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that all the objections so sustained have been met, and shall enter an order so declaring, the Trustee shall mail copies of such material to all such Holder with reasonable promptness after the entry of such order and the renewal of such tender; otherwise the Trustee shall be relieved of any obligation or duty to such applicants respecting their application.
 
(c)           Each and every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee or any agent of the Company or of the Trustee shall be held accountable by reason of the disclosure of any such information as to the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Section, regardless of the source from which such information was derived, and that the Trustee shall not be held accountable by reason of mailing any material pursuant to a request made under said subsection (b).
 
Section 5.03.        Reports by the Company
.  The Company covenants:
 
(a)           to file with the Trustee within thirty (30) days after the Company files the same with the Commission, copies of the annual reports and of the information, documents and other reports (or copies of such portions of any of the foregoing as the Commission may from time to time by rules and regulations prescribe) which the Company may be required to file with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act; or, if the Company is not required to file information, documents or reports pursuant to either of such sections, then to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such of the supplementary and periodic information, documents and reports which may be required pursuant to Section 13 of the Exchange Act in respect of a security listed and registered on a national securities exchange as may be prescribed from time to time in such rules and regulations;
 
(b)           to file with the Trustee and the Commission, in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission, such additional information, documents, and reports with respect to compliance by the Company with the conditions and covenants provided for in this Indenture as may be required from time to time by such rules and regulations; and
 
(c)           to transmit by mail to all the Holders of Securities of each series, as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register, within thirty (30) days after the filing thereof with the Trustee, such summaries of any information, documents and reports required to be filed by the Company with respect to each such series pursuant to subsections (a) and (b) of this Section as may be required by rules and regulations prescribed from time to time by the Commission.
Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates).
 
Section 5.04.        Reports by the Trustee.
 
(a)           The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto.  If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty (60) days after each May 15th following the date of the initial issuance of Securities under this Indenture deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 15th, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a).
 
(b)           A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders of Securities of a particular series, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange, if any, upon which the Securities of such series are listed and also with the Commission and the Company.  The Company agrees to notify the Trustee when and as the Securities of any series become listed or delisted on any stock exchange.
 
Section 6.01.        Events of Default
.  In case one or more of the following Events of Default with respect to a particular series of Securities shall have occurred and be continuing:
 
(a)           default in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable (whether payable in cash or in Shares or other securities or property), either at maturity, upon redemption, repurchase or repayment, by declaration or otherwise; or
 
(b)           default in the payment of any installment of interest, if any, or in the payment of any Additional Amount upon any of the Securities of such series as and when the same shall become due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of thirty (30) days; or
 
(c)           with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply as contemplated by Section 2.01, the Guarantee ceases to be in full force and effect or is declared to be null and void and unenforceable with respect to the Securities of such series or the Guarantee is found to be invalid or the Guarantor denies its liability under the Guarantee (other than by reason of release of the Guarantor in accordance with the terms hereof) with respect to the Securities of such series; or
 
(d)           failure on the part of the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor duly to
observe or perform any other of the covenants or agreements on the part of the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor in this Indenture applicable to Securities of such series for a period of ninety (90) days after the date on which written notice of such failure, specifying such failure and requiring the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor to remedy the same and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder, shall have been given to the Company or if applicable, the Guarantor by the Trustee, or to the Company and if applicable, the Guarantor and the Trustee by the Holders of at least twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series at the time Outstanding; or
 
(e)           a court having jurisdiction in the premises shall enter a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor in an involuntary case under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law now or hereafter in effect, or appointment of an administrator, receiver, liquidator, assignee, custodian, trustee, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor or for any substantial part of property of the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor or ordering the winding-up or liquidation of its affairs and such decree, order or appointment shall remain unstayed or in place and in effect for a period of ninety (90) days; or
 
(f)            except for any case, proceeding, meeting, resolution or order in connection with a winding-up of the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor for the purposes of a solvent reorganization or reconstruction of the Company or the Guarantor, as applicable, either the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall commence a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law in any jurisdiction now or hereafter in effect, or shall consent to the entry of an order for relief in an involuntary case or proceeding under any such law, or shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by an administrator, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, custodian, sequestrator (or similar official) of the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor or for any substantial part of the property of the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor or shall make any general assignment for the benefit of creditors;
 
(g)           default in the delivery of any Shares, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares, or any other securities or property (including cash) when required to be delivered upon conversion of any convertible Security of such series established pursuant to Section 2.01 or upon the exchange of any Security of such series which is exchangeable for other securities or property, and continuance of such default for a period of 10 Business Days; or
 
(h)           any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of such series;
then in each and every such case, unless the principal amount of all the Securities of such series shall have already become due and payable, either the Trustee or the Holders of not less than twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by notice in writing to the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor (and to the Trustee if given by Holders of such Securities) may declare the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on all the Securities (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such lesser amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) of such series to be due and payable immediately, and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or specified amount), and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, shall become and shall be immediately due and payable.
 
The foregoing provisions, however, are subject to the conditions that if, at any time after the principal of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of any series shall have been so declared due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the moneys due shall have been obtained or entered as hereinafter provided, the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall pay or shall deposit with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay (or, to the extent that the terms of the Securities of such series established pursuant to Section 2.01 expressly provide for payment to be made in Shares or other securities or property Shares or other securities or property, together with cash in lieu of fractional shares or securities, sufficient to pay) all matured installments of interest, if any, due upon all the Securities of such series and the principal of and premium, if any, on all Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such lesser amount as may be specified in the terms of such Securities) which shall have become due otherwise than by acceleration (with interest, if any, upon such principal and premium, if any, and, to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law, on overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Securities of such series, as the case may be (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption, repurchase, repayment or acceleration of such series, as the case may be), to the date of such payment or deposit), and such amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct, and any and all Events of Default under the Indenture with respect to such series, other than the nonpayment of principal on Securities of that series that shall not have become due by their terms shall have been remedied or waived, then and in every such case the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding, by written notice to the Company and to the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences; provided no such waiver or rescission and annulment shall extend to or shall affect any subsequent default or shall impair any right consequent thereon.
 
In case the Trustee shall have proceeded to enforce any right under this Indenture and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned because of such rescission and annulment or for any other reason or shall have been determined adversely
to the Trustee, then and in every such case the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable), the Trustee and the Holders of Securities, as the case may be, shall be restored respectively to their former positions and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable), the Trustee and the Holders of Securities, as the case may be, shall continue as though no such proceedings had been taken.
 
Section 6.02.        Payment of Securities on Default; Suit Therefor
.  The Company covenants that (1) in case default shall be made in the payment of any installment of interest, if any, on any of the Securities of any series, as and when the same shall become due and payable, and such default shall have continued for a period of thirty (30) days, or (2) in case default shall be made in the payment of the principal of or premium, if any, on any of the Securities of any series, as and when the same shall have become due and payable, whether upon maturity of such series or upon redemption, repurchase or repayment or upon declaration or otherwise, then upon demand of the Trustee, the Company will pay to the Trustee, for the benefit of the Holders of the Securities of such series, the whole amount that then shall have become due and payable on all such Securities of such series, for principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, as the case may be, with interest upon the overdue principal, premium, if any and (to the extent that payment of such interest is enforceable under applicable law) upon overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in the Securities of such series (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption, repurchase, repayment or acceleration of such series, as the case may be); and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct.
 
In case the Company shall fail forthwith to pay such amounts upon such demand by the Trustee and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, such amounts have not been paid by the Guarantor under the Guarantee, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, shall be entitled and empowered to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute any such action or proceedings to judgment or final decree, and may enforce any such judgment or final decree against the Company, the Guarantor (with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply) or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or any other obligor upon such Securities wherever situated the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable.
 
In case there shall be pending proceedings for the bankruptcy or for the reorganization of the Company, the Guarantor (with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply) or any other obligor upon Securities of any series under Title 11 of the United States Code or any other applicable law, or in case a receiver or trustee shall have been appointed for the property of the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or such other obligor, or in the case of any other judicial proceedings relative to the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or such other obligor, or to the creditors or property of the Company, the
Guarantor (if applicable) or such other obligor, the Trustee, irrespective of whether the principal of the Securities of such series shall then be due and payable as therein expressed or by declaration or otherwise and irrespective of whether the Trustee shall have made any demand pursuant to the provisions of this Section, shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceedings or otherwise to the extent permitted by the court, to file and prove a claim or claims for the whole amount of principal (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, such portion of the principal amount as may be specified in the terms of that series), premium, if any, and interest, if any, owing and unpaid in respect of the Securities of such series, and to file such other papers or documents as may be necessary or advisable in order to have the claims of the Trustee (including any claim for reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and for reimbursement of all reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct) and of the Holders of the Securities of such series allowed in any such judicial proceedings relative to the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or other obligor upon the Securities of such series, or to the creditors or property of the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or such other obligor, and to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims, and to distribute all amounts received with respect to the claims of the Securityholders of such series and of the Trustee on their behalf; and any receiver, assignee or trustee in bankruptcy or reorganization is hereby authorized by each of the Holders of the Securities of such series to make payments to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of payments directly to the Securityholders of such series, to pay to the Trustee such amount as shall be sufficient to cover reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct.
Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof, or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding.
 
All rights of action and of asserting claims under this Indenture, or under any of the Securities, may be enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities, or the production thereof on any trial or other proceedings relative thereto, and any such action or proceedings instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered.
 
In case of an Event of Default hereunder the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce the rights vested in it by this Indenture by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem necessary to protect and enforce any of such rights,
either at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted in this Indenture, or to enforce any other legal or equitable right vested in the Trustee by this Indenture or by law.
 
Section 6.03.        Application of Moneys Collected by Trustee
.  Any moneys collected by the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.02 shall be applied in the order following, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such moneys on account of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, upon presentation of the several Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected, and stamping thereon the payment, if only partially paid, and upon surrender thereof, if fully paid:
 
FIRST:  To the payment of reasonable costs and expenses applicable to such Securities of collection, reasonable compensation to the Trustee, its agents, attorneys and counsel, and all other reasonable expenses and liabilities incurred, and all advances made, by the Trustee except as a result of its negligence or willful misconduct;
 
SECOND:  In case the principal of the Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected shall not have become due, to the payment of interest, if any, on such Securities in the order of the maturity of the installments of such interest, with interest (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) upon the overdue installments of interest at the same rate as the rate of interest, if any, specified in such Securities (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption, repurchase or repayment or acceleration), such payments to be made ratably to the persons entitled thereto, without discrimination or preference;
 
THIRD:  In case the principal of the Securities in respect of which moneys have been collected shall have become due, by declaration or otherwise, to the payment of the whole amount then owing and unpaid upon such Securities for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, and (to the extent that such interest has been collected by the Trustee) interest upon overdue installments of interest, if any, at the same rate as the rate of interest specified in such Securities (or, with respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, at the rate specified in the terms of such Securities for interest on overdue principal thereof upon maturity, redemption, repurchase or repayment or acceleration); and, in case such moneys shall be insufficient to pay in full the whole amount so due and unpaid upon such Securities, then to the payment of such principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, without preference or priority of principal and premium, if any, over interest, if any, or of interest, if any, over principal and premium, if any, or of any such Security over any other such Security, ratably to the aggregate of such principal and premium, if any, and accrued and unpaid interest, if any; and
 
FOURTH:  Any remainder to the Company or as a court of competent jurisdiction may direct.
 
Section 6.04.        Proceedings by Securityholders
.  No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right by virtue or by availing of any provision of this Indenture
to institute any action or proceedings at law or in equity or in bankruptcy or otherwise, upon or under or with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless such Holder previously shall have given to the Trustee written notice of an Event of Default and of the continuance thereof, as hereinbefore provided, and unless also the Holders of not less than twenty-five percent (25%) in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series then Outstanding shall have made written request upon the Trustee to institute such action or proceedings in its own name as trustee hereunder and shall have offered to the Trustee such indemnity reasonably satisfactory as it may require against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred therein or thereby, and the Trustee for sixty (60) days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity shall have failed to institute any such action or proceedings and no direction inconsistent with such written request shall have been given to the Trustee pursuant to Section 6.06; it being understood and intended, and being expressly covenanted by the taker and Holder of every Security with every other taker and Holder and the Trustee, that no one or more Holders of Securities shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of or by availing himself of any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holder of Securities, or to obtain or seek to obtain priority over or preference to any other such Holder or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal, ratable and common benefit of all Holders of Securities.  For the protection and enforcement of the provisions of this Section, each and every Securityholder and the Trustee shall be entitled to such relief as can be given either at law or in equity.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions in this Indenture, however, the right of any Holder of any Security to receive payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on such Security, on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Security, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Holder.  With respect to Original Issue Discount Securities, principal shall mean such amount as shall be due and payable as specified in or established pursuant to the terms of such Securities.
 
Section 6.05.        Remedies Cumulative and Continuing
.  All powers and remedies given by this Article Six to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities shall, to the extent permitted by law, be deemed cumulative and not exclusive, of any thereof or of any other powers and remedies available to the Trustee or the Holders of Securities, by judicial proceedings or otherwise, to enforce the performance or observance of the covenants and agreements contained in this Indenture, and no delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any of the Securities to exercise any right or power accruing upon any Event of Default with respect to such Securities occurring and continuing as aforesaid shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver of any such default or an acquiescence therein; and, subject to the provisions of Section 6.04, every power and remedy given by this Article Six or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders of Securities may be exercised from time to time, and as often as shall be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities, as the case may be.
 
Section 6.06.            Direction of Proceedings
.  The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series shall have the right to direct the time, method, and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series; provided, however, that (subject to the provisions of Section 7.01) the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction (i) that is in conflict with this Indenture or the Securities of such series, (ii) if the Trustee, being advised by counsel, determines that the action or proceedings so directed may not lawfully be taken or (iii) if the Trustee in good faith by its board of directors or executive committee or a trust committee of directors or trustees and/or Responsible Officers shall determine that the action or proceedings so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability.
 
Section 6.07.            Notice of Defaults
.  The Trustee shall, within ninety (90) days after the occurrence of a default with respect to the Securities of any series, give notice of all defaults with respect to that series known to the Trustee to all Holders of then Outstanding Securities of that series, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, unless in each case such defaults shall have been cured before the mailing or publication of such notice (the term "defaults" for the purpose of this Section being hereby defined to be the events specified in Sections 6.01(a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) and (g) and any additional events specified in the terms of any series of Securities pursuant to Section 2.01, not including periods of grace, if any, provided for therein, and irrespective of the giving of written notice specified in Section 6.01(d) or in the terms of any Securities established pursuant to Section 2.01); and that, except in the case of default in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any of the Securities of such series, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee, or a trust committee of directors or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determines that the withholding of such notice is in the interests of the Holders of the Securities of such series.
provided
 
Section 6.08.            Undertaking to Pay Costs
.  All parties to this Indenture agree, and each Holder of any Security by his acceptance thereof shall be deemed to have agreed, that any court may in its discretion require, in any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken or omitted by it as Trustee, the filing by any party litigant in such suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and that such court may in its discretion assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in such suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by such party litigant; but the provisions of this Section shall not apply to any suit instituted by the Trustee, to any suit instituted by any Securityholder of any series, or group of such Securityholders, holding in the aggregate more than ten percent (10%) in aggregate principal amount of any Securities of any series, or to any suit instituted by any Securityholders for the enforcement of the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any Security on or after the due date expressed in such Security or for the enforcement of the right, if any, to convert or exchange any Security into Shares or other securities in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.09.            Waiver of Past Defaults
.  The Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default
 
(a)           in the payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on any Security of such series;
 
(b)           in the case of any Securities which are convertible into or exchangeable for Shares or other securities or property, a default in any such conversion or exchange; or
 
(c)           in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Ten cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected.
 
Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture and the Securities of such series; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon.
 
Section 7.01.            Duties and Responsibilities of Trustee
.  The Trustee, except during the continuance of an Event of Default of a particular series, undertakes to perform such duties and only such duties as are specifically set forth in this Indenture.  In case an Event of Default with respect to a particular series has occurred (which has not been cured or waived), the Trustee shall exercise with respect to Securities of that series such of the rights and powers vested in it by this Indenture, and use the same degree of care and skill in their exercise, as a prudent man would exercise or use under the circumstances in the conduct of his own affairs.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be construed to relieve the Trustee from liability for its own negligent action, its own negligent failure to act, or its own willful misconduct, except that:
 
(a)           prior to the occurrence of an Event of Default with respect to a particular series and after the curing or waiving of all Events of Default with respect to such series which may have occurred:
 
(i)            the duties and obligations of the Trustees with respect to such series shall be determined solely by the express provisions of this Indenture, and the Trustee shall not be liable except for the performance of such duties and obligations as are specifically set forth in this Indenture, and no implied covenants or obligations shall be read into this Indenture against the Trustee; and
(ii)           in the absence of bad faith on the part of the Trustee, the Trustee may conclusively rely, as to the truth of the statements and the correctness of the opinions expressed therein, upon any certificates or opinions furnished to the Trustee and conforming to the requirements of this Indenture; but in the case of any such certificates or opinions which by any provision hereof are specifically required to be furnished to the Trustee, the Trustee shall be under a duty to examine the same to determine whether or not they conform to the requirements of this Indenture (but need not confirm or investigate the accuracy of mathematical calculations or other facts stated therein);
 
(b)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer or officers, unless it shall be proved that the Trustee was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts; and
 
(c)           the Trustee shall not be liable with respect to any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in accordance with the direction of the Holders of Securities pursuant to Section 6.06 relating to the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred upon the Trustee, under this Indenture.
 
Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section.
 
No provision of this Indenture shall be construed as requiring the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise to incur any personal financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if there shall be reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it.
 
Section 7.02.            Reliance on Documents, Opinions, etc
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01:
 
(a)           the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be fully protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon or other paper or document believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties;
 
(b)           any request, direction, order or demand of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an instrument signed in the name of the Company by the Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or, if the other signatory is other than the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); any Board Resolution may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Company; any request,
direction, order or demand of the Guarantor mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by an instrument signed in the name of the Guarantor by the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Guarantor or its President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or the Treasurer and by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary or, if the other signatory is other than the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed); and any Board Resolution of the Guarantor may be evidenced to the Trustee by a copy thereof certified by the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of the Guarantor;
 
(c)           the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken or suffered by it hereunder in good faith and in accordance with such Opinion of Counsel;
 
(d)           the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request, order or direction of any of the Securityholders, pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture, unless such Securityholders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity reasonably satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses, and liabilities which might be incurred therein or thereby;
 
(e)           the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, coupon or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company or the Guarantor personally or by agent or attorney;
 
(f)            the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed by it with due care hereunder;
 
(g)           the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken by it in good faith and believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture;
 
(h)           in no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any special, punitive, indirect or consequential (including but not limited to loss of profit) loss or damage, irrespective of whether the Trustee has been advised of the likelihood of such loss or damage and regardless of the form of action;
 
(i)            the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the
Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture;
 
(j)            the rights, privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and
 
(k)           the Trustee may request that the Company or the Guarantor deliver a certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture.
 
Section 7.03.            No Responsibility for Recitals, etc
.  The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, other than the Trustee's certificate of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company and the Guarantor, as applicable, and the Trustee assumes no responsibility for the correctness of the same.  The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities, that the Trustee shall not be relieved of its duty to authenticate Securities only as authorized by this Indenture.  The Trustee shall not be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof.
provided
 
Section 7.04.            Ownership of Securities
.  The Trustee or any agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, or an agent of the Company, the Guarantor or the Trustee.
 
Section 7.05.            Moneys to Be Held in Trust
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12.04, all moneys received by the Trustee or any paying agent shall, until used or applied as herein provided, be held in trust for the purposes for which they were received, but need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.  Neither the Trustee nor any paying agent shall be under any liability for interest on any moneys received by it hereunder except such as it may agree in writing with the Company to pay thereon.  So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, all interest allowed on any such moneys shall be paid from time to time upon the written order of the Company, signed by its Chairman of the Board of Directors or any Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors or its President or any Executive Vice President or any Vice President or its Treasurer or any Assistant Treasurer.
 
Section 7.06.            Compensation, Indemnification and Expenses of Trustee
.  The Company covenants and agrees to pay to the Trustee from time to time, and the Trustee shall be entitled to, reasonable compensation and, except as otherwise expressly provided, the Company will pay or reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any of the provisions of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation, expenses and disbursements of its counsel and of all Persons not regularly in its employ) except any such expense, disbursement or advance as shall have been caused by its own negligence or willful misconduct.  The Company and, with respect to
any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor, jointly and severally also covenant to indemnify the Trustee for, and to hold it harmless against, any loss, claim, damage, liability or expense incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of this trust, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim of liability in the premises.  The obligations of the Company under this Section to compensate the Trustee and to pay or reimburse the Trustee for reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances shall constitute additional indebtedness hereunder.  Such additional indebtedness shall be secured by a lien prior to that of the Securities upon all property and funds held or collected by the Trustee as such, except funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities.
 
When the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default, the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable Federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law.
 
The provisions of this Section shall survive the termination of this Indenture, the resignation or removal of the Trustee and the payment of the Securities.
 
Section 7.07.            Officers' Certificate as Evidence
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 7.01, whenever in the administration of the provisions of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it necessary or desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking or suffering any action to be taken hereunder, such matter (unless other evidence in respect thereof be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of negligence or bad faith on the part of the Trustee, be deemed to be conclusively proved and established by an Officers' Certificate or an Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor, as applicable, delivered to the Trustee, and such Certificate, in the absence of negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the Trustee, shall be full warrant to the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it under the provisions of this Indenture upon the faith thereof.
 
Section 7.08.            Conflicting Interest of Trustee.
 
(a)           If the Trustee has or shall acquire any conflicting interest, as defined in the Trust Indenture Act, it shall, within ninety (90) days after ascertaining that it has such conflicting interest, either eliminate such conflicting interest or resign in the manner and with the effect specified in the Trust Indenture Act.
 
(b)           In the event that the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Section, the Trustee shall, within ten (10) days after the expiration of such ninety-day period, transmit notice of such failure to all Securityholders of the series affected by the conflicting interest as the names and addresses of such Holders appear on the Security Register.
Section 7.09.            Eligibility of Trustee
.  There shall at all times be a trustee hereunder which shall be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States or of any State or Territory thereof or of the District of Columbia, which (a) is authorized under such laws to exercise corporate trust powers, and (b) is subject to supervision or examination by Federal, State, Territorial or District of Columbia authority and (c) shall have at all times a combined capital and surplus of not less than fifty million dollars.  If such corporation publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law, or to the requirements of the aforesaid supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such corporation at any time shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.  In case at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 7.10.
 
Section 7.10.            Resignation or Removal of Trustee.
 
(a)           The Trustee, or any trustee or trustees hereafter appointed, may, upon sixty (60) days' written notice to the Company, at any time resign with respect to one or more or all series by giving written notice of resignation to the Company, and by mailing notice of such resignation to the Holders of then outstanding Securities of each series affected at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register.  Upon receiving such notice of resignation, the Company shall promptly appoint a successor trustee with respect to the applicable series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the resigning Trustee and one copy to the successor trustee.  If no successor trustee shall have been so appointed and have accepted appointment within thirty (30) days after the mailing of such notice of resignation to the Securityholders, the resigning Trustee may petition at the expense of the Company any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor trustee, or any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, subject to the provisions of Section 6.08, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any such court for the appointment of a successor trustee.  Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, appoint a successor trustee.
 
(b)           In case at any time any of the following shall occur:
 
(i)            the Trustee shall fail to comply with the provisions of subsection (a) of Section 7.08 with respect to any series of Securities after written request therefor by the Company or by any Securityholder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of such series for at least six months, or
 
(ii)           the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of Section 7.09 with respect to any series of Securities and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Securityholder, or
(iii)          the Trustee shall become incapable of acting with respect to any series of Securities, or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or commence a voluntary bankruptcy proceeding, or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or consented to, or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation;
 
then, in any such case, the Company may remove the Trustee with respect to the applicable series of Securities and appoint a successor trustee with respect to such series by written instrument, in duplicate, executed by order of the Board of Directors of the Company, one copy of which instrument shall be delivered to the Trustee so removed and one copy to the successor trustee, or, subject to the provisions of Section 6.08, any Securityholder of such series who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security or Securities of the applicable series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee and the appointment of a successor trustee with respect to such series.  Such court may thereupon, after such notice, if any, as it may deem proper and prescribe, remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee.
 
(c)           The Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series at the time Outstanding may at any time remove the Trustee with respect to Securities of such series by so notifying the Trustee and the Company and appoint a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of such series with the consent of the Company.
 
(d)           Any resignation or removal of the Trustee and any appointment of a successor trustee pursuant to any of the provisions of this Section shall become effective upon acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee as provided in Section 7.11.
 
(e)           Any successor trustee appointed pursuant to this Section may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more series or all of such series, and at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series.
 
Section 7.11.            Acceptance by Successor Trustee
.  Any successor trustee appointed as provided in Section 7.10 shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company, the Guarantor and its predecessor trustee an instrument accepting such appointment hereunder, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the predecessor trustee with respect to all or any applicable series shall become effective and such successor trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, duties and obligations with respect to such series of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as trustee herein; but, nevertheless, on the written request of the Company, the Guarantor or the successor trustee, the trustee ceasing to act shall, upon payment of any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor trustee all the rights and powers of the trustee so ceasing to act and shall assign, transfer and deliver to such successor or trustee all property and money held by such trustee so ceasing to act.  Upon request of any such successor trustee, the Company and the
Guarantor shall execute any and all instruments in writing in order to more fully and certainly vest in and confirm to such successor trustee all such rights and powers.  Any trustee ceasing to act shall, nevertheless, retain a lien upon all property or funds held or collected by such trustee to secure any amounts then due it pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.06.
 
In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the Guarantor (if any of such series of Securities are entitled to the benefits of Article Fifteen) and the predecessor trustee and each successor trustee with respect to the Securities of any applicable series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto which shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the predecessor trustee with respect to the Securities of any series as to which the predecessor trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the predecessor trustee, and shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such trustee.
 
No successor trustee shall accept appointment as provided in this Section unless at the time of such acceptance such successor trustee shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09.
 
Upon acceptance of appointment by a successor trustee as provided in this Section, the Company shall give notice of the succession of such trustee hereunder to the Holders of Securities of each series affected, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register.  If the Company fails to mail such notice in the prescribed manner within ten (10) days after the acceptance of appointment by the successor trustee, the successor trustee shall cause such notice to be so given at the expense of the Company.
 
Section 7.12.            Successor by Merger, etc
.  Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be qualified under the provisions of Section 7.08 and eligible under the provisions of Section 7.09, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto, anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities.
 
Section 7.13.
                                    
Limitations on Rights of Trustee as Creditor
.  If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor with respect to the Securities, which may include the Guarantor), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor).
 
Section 8.01.
                                    
Action by Securityholders
.  Whenever in this Indenture it is that the Holders of a specified aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series may take any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the fact that at the time of taking any such action the Holders of such specified amount have joined therein may be evidenced (a) by any instrument or any number of instruments of similar tenor executed by Securityholders in person or by agent or proxy appointed in writing, and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company, or (b) by the record of the Holders of Securities voting in favor thereof at any meeting of Securityholders duly called and held in accordance with the provisions of Article Nine, or (c) by a combination of such instrument or instruments and any such record of such a meeting of Securityholders.
provided
 
In determining whether the Holders of a specified aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have taken any action (including the making of any demand or request, the giving of any notice, consent or waiver or the taking of any other action), the principal amount of any Original Issue Discount Security that may be counted in making such determination and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purposes shall be equal to the amount of the principal thereof that could be declared to be due and payable upon an Event of Default pursuant to the terms of such Original Issue Discount Security at the time the taking of such action is evidenced to the Trustee.
 
Section 8.02.
                                    
Proof of Ownership
.  Subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01, 7.02 and 9.05, the ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register or by a certificate of the Security Registrar.
 
Section 8.03.
                                    
Who Are Deemed Absolute Owners
.  The Company, the Guarantor (if applicable), the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent and any Security Registrar may, subject to Section 2.04, treat the person in whose name a Security shall be registered upon the Security Register as the absolute owner of such Security (whether or not such Security shall be overdue) for the purpose of receiving payment thereof or on account thereof and for all other purposes and neither the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable), the Trustee, any paying agent, any transfer agent nor any Security Registrar shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
 
If the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor shall solicit from the Holders of all or any series of Securities any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice,
consent, waiver or other act, the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor may at its option (but is not obligated to), by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or Board Resolution of the Guarantor, as the case may be, fix in advance a record date for the determination of Holders of Securities entitled to give such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act.  If such a record date is fixed, such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act may be given before or after such record date, but only the Holders of Securities of record at the close of business on such record date shall be deemed to be Holders for the purpose of determining whether Holders of the requisite proportion of the applicable Outstanding Securities have authorized or agreed or consented to such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other act, and for that purpose the applicable Outstanding Securities shall be computed as of such record date; that no such authorization, agreement or consent by the Holders of all or any series of Securities shall be deemed effective unless it shall become effective pursuant to the provisions of this Indenture not later than six months after the applicable record date.
provided
 
Section 8.04.
                                    
Company-Owned Securities Disregarded
.  In determining whether the Holders of the required aggregate principal amount of all or any series of Securities have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver under this Indenture, Securities which are owned by the Company or by any person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect control with the Company, shall be disregarded and deemed not to be outstanding for the purpose of any such determination, except that for the purpose of determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying on any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver only Securities which the Trustee knows are so owned shall be disregarded.  Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding for the purposes of this Section if the pledgee shall establish to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgor's right to vote such Securities and that the pledgee is not a person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with the Company.  In the case of a dispute as to such right, any decision by the Trustee taken upon the advice of counsel shall be full protection to the Trustee.
 
Section 8.05.
                                    
Revocation of Consents; Future Securityholders Bound
.  At any time prior to the taking of any action by the Holders of the aggregate principal amount of all or any series of the Outstanding Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action, any Holder of a Security the identifying number of which is shown by the evidence to be included in the Securities the Holders of which have consented to such action may, by filing written notice with the Trustee at its office and upon proof of holding as provided in Section 8.02, revoke such action so far as concerns such Security.  Except as aforesaid, any such action taken by the Holder of any Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders and owners of such Security and of any Security issued in exchange or substitution therefor irrespective of whether or not any notation in regard thereto is made upon such Security.  Any action taken by the Holders of the aggregate principal amount of the Securities specified in this Indenture in connection with such action shall be conclusively binding upon the
Company, the Guarantor (if applicable), the Trustee and the Holders of all the Securities of each series intended to be affected thereby.
 
Section 9.01.
                                    
Purposes of Meetings
.  A meeting of Securityholders of any series may be called at any time and from time to time pursuant to the provisions of this Article for any of the following purposes:
 
(a)
                                
to give any notice to the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) or the Trustee, or to give any directions to the Trustee, or to waive any default hereunder and its consequences, or to take any other action authorized to be taken by Securityholders pursuant to any of the provisions of Article Six;
 
(b)
                                
to remove the Trustee and appoint a successor trustee pursuant to the provisions of Article Seven;
 
(c)
                                 
to consent to the execution of an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto pursuant to the provisions of Section 10.02; or
 
(d)
                                
to take any other action authorized to be taken by or on behalf of the Holders of any specified aggregate principal amount of the Securities of such series, as the case may be, under any other provision of this Indenture or under applicable law.
 
Section 9.02.
                                    
Call of Meetings by Trustee
.  The Trustee may at any time call a meeting of Holders of Securities of any series to take any action specified in Section 9.01, to be held at such time and at such place in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York as the Trustee shall determine.  Notice of every meeting of the Holders of Securities of any or all series, setting forth the time and place of such meeting and in general terms the action proposed to be taken at such meeting, shall be given to all Holders of then Outstanding Securities of such series, by mailing such notice to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register, not less than twenty (20) nor more than one hundred eighty (180) days prior to the date fixed for the meeting.  Failure of any Holder or Holders to receive such notice or any defect therein shall in no case affect the validity of any action taken at such meeting.  Any meeting of Holders of Securities of any series shall be valid without notice if the Holders of all Securities of such series Outstanding, the Company and the Trustee are present in person or by proxy or shall have waived notice thereof before or after the meeting.
 
Section 9.03.
                                    
Call of Meetings by Company or Securityholders
.  In case at any time the Company, pursuant to a Board Resolution, or the Holders of at least ten (10%) percent in aggregate principal amount of the Securities of any series, as the case may be, then Outstanding, shall have requested the Trustee to call a meeting of Securityholders of Securities of such series to take any action authorized in Section 9.01, by written request setting forth in reasonable detail the action proposed to be taken at the meeting, and the Trustee shall not have mailed or published, as provided in Section 9.02, the notice of such meeting within thirty (30) days after receipt of such request, then the Company or the
Holders of Securities of such series in the amount above specified may determine the time and the place in said Borough of Manhattan for such meeting and may call such meeting to take any action authorized in Section 9.01, by mailing or publishing notice thereof as provided in Section 9.02.
 
Section 9.04.
                                    
Qualification for Voting
.  To be entitled to vote at any meeting of Securityholders a person shall be a Holder of one or more Securities of the series with respect to which a meeting is being held or a person appointed by an instrument in writing as proxy by such a Holder.  The only persons who shall be entitled to be present or to speak at any meeting of the Securityholders shall be the persons entitled to vote at such meeting and their counsel and any representatives of the Trustee and its counsel and any representatives of the Company and its counsel.
 
Section 9.05.
                                    
Regulations
.  Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Indenture, the Trustee may make such reasonable regulations as it may deem advisable for any meeting of Securityholders, in regard to proof of the holding of Securities and of the appointment of proxies, and in regard to the appointment and duties of inspectors of votes, the submission and examination of proxies, certificates and other evidence of the right to vote, and such other matters concerning the conduct of the meeting as it shall think fit.
 
The Trustee shall, by an instrument in writing, appoint a temporary chairman of the meeting, unless the meeting shall have been called by the Company or by Securityholders as provided in Section 9.03, in which case the Company or the Securityholders calling the meeting, as the case may be, shall in like manner appoint a temporary chairman.  A permanent chairman and a permanent secretary of the meeting shall be elected by vote of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities represented at the meeting and entitled to vote.
 
Subject to the provisions of Sections 8.01 and 8.04, at any meeting of Securityholders of any series, each Securityholder or proxy shall be entitled to one vote for each $1,000 principal amount at maturity of Securities of such series held or represented by him; provided, however, that no vote shall be cast or counted at any meeting in respect of any Security challenged as not Outstanding and ruled by the chairman of the meeting not to be Outstanding.  The chairman of the meeting shall have no right to vote except as a Securityholder or proxy.  Any meeting of Securityholders duly called pursuant to the provisions of Section 9.02 or 9.03 may be adjourned from time to time, and the meeting may be held as so adjourned without further notice.
 
Section 9.06.
                                    
Voting
.  The vote upon any resolution submitted to any meeting of Securityholders shall be by written ballot on which shall be subscribed the signatures of the Securityholders or proxies and on which shall be inscribed the identifying number or numbers or to which shall be attached a list of identifying numbers of the Securities held or represented by them.  The permanent chairman of the meeting shall appoint two inspectors of votes who shall count all votes cast at the meeting for or against any resolution and who shall make and file with the secretary of the meeting their verified reports in duplicate of all votes cast at the meeting.  A record in duplicate of the
proceedings of each meeting of Securityholders shall be prepared by the secretary of the meeting and there shall be attached to said record the original reports of the inspectors of votes on any vote by ballot taken thereat and affidavits by one or more persons having knowledge of the facts setting forth a copy of the notice of the meeting and showing that said notice was mailed as provided in Section 9.02.  The record shall be signed and verified by the permanent chairman and secretary of the meeting and one of the duplicates shall be delivered to the Company and the other to the Trustee to be preserved by the Trustee, the latter to have attached thereto the ballots voted at the meeting.
 
Any record so signed and verified shall be conclusive evidence of the matters therein stated.
 
Section 10.01.
                             
Supplemental Indentures without Consent of Securityholders
.  The Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Guarantor, when authorized by a Board Resolution of the Guarantor (if applicable), and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto (which shall conform to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date of the execution thereof) for one or more of the following purposes:
 
(a)
                                
to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company or the Guarantor, or successive successions, and the assumption by any successor Person of the covenants, agreements and obligations of the Company or the Guarantor pursuant to Article Eleven hereof;
 
(b)
                                
to add to the covenants of the Company or the Guarantor for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities, to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of Securities, or to surrender any right or power conferred upon the Company or the Guarantor;
 
(c)
                                 
to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Global Securities and to make all appropriate changes for such purpose, and to add or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of uncertificated Securities of any series;
 
(d)
                                
to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision contained herein or in any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities; to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Trustee; or to make such other provisions in regard to matters or questions arising under this Indenture or under any supplemental indenture or in the terms of any series of Securities as shall not adversely affect the interests of the Holders of any series of Securities in any material respect;
(e)
                                 
to conform the terms of the Indenture or the Securities of a series or the Guarantee to the description thereof contained in any prospectus or other offering document or memorandum relating to the offer and sale of such Securities; and
 
(f)
                                  
to evidence and provide for the acceptance and appointment hereunder by a successor trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series, and to add or change any provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one trustee, pursuant to Section 7.11;
 
(g)
                                 
to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 2.01 and 2.03.
 
The Trustee is hereby authorized to join with the Company and, if applicable, the Guarantor in the execution of any such supplemental indenture, to make any further appropriate agreements and stipulations which may be therein contained and to accept the conveyance, transfer, assignment, mortgage or pledge of any property thereunder, but the Trustee shall not be obligated to enter into any such supplemental indenture which adversely affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise.
 
Any supplemental indenture authorized by the provisions of this Section may be executed by the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) and the Trustee without the consent of the Holders of any of the Securities at the time Outstanding, notwithstanding any of the provisions of Section 10.02.
 
Section 10.02.
                             
Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Securityholders
.  With the consent (evidenced as provided in Section 8.01) of the Holders of not less than a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series affected by such supplemental indenture, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, the Guarantor (if applicable), when authorized by a Board Resolution of the Guarantor, and the Trustee may from time to time and at any time enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of any supplemental indenture or modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each such series; provided, however, that, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, no such supplemental indenture shall:
 
(a)
                                
extend the stated maturity of any Securities, or reduce the principal amount thereof or premium, if any, or reduce the rate or change the due date of any installment of principal of or interest on, or payments of Additional Amounts, or reduce the amount due and payable upon acceleration of the maturity thereof or the amount provable in bankruptcy, or make the principal of or interest or premium, if any, on any Security payable in any coin or currency other than that provided in such Security;
(b)
                                
impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the stated maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the redemption date therefor);
 
(c)
                                 
reduce the aforesaid percentage in principal amount of Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required pursuant to Section 6.01 to waive defaults;
 
(d)
                                
make any change that adversely affects the right, if any, to convert or exchange any Security for Shares or other securities or property in accordance with its terms; or
 
(e)
                                 
modify any of the provisions of this Section or Section 6.09, except to increase any such percentage or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; , that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 7.11 and 10.01(e).
provided however
 
A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series.
 
Upon the request of the Company and the Guarantor, if applicable, accompanied by a copy of a Board Resolution and, if applicable, a Board Resolution of the Guarantor authorizing the execution of any such supplemental indenture, and upon the filing with the Trustee of evidence of the consent of Securityholders as aforesaid, the Trustee shall join with the Company and, if applicable, the Guarantor in the execution of such supplemental indenture unless such supplemental indenture affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise, in which case the Trustee may in its discretion, but shall not be obligated to, enter into such supplemental indenture.
 
It shall not be necessary for the consent of the Securityholders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such consent shall approve the substance thereof.
 
Promptly after the execution and delivery by the Company, the Guarantor, if applicable, and the Trustee of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Section, the Trustee shall give notice of such supplemental indenture to the Holders of then Outstanding Securities of each series affected thereby, by mailing a notice thereof by first-class mail to such Holders at their addresses as they shall appear on the Security Register.  Any failure of the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor to mail or publish
such notice, or any defect therein, shall not, however in any way impair or affect the validity of any such supplemental indenture.
 
Section 10.03.
                             
Compliance with Trust Indenture Act; Effect of Supplemental Indentures
.  Any supplemental indenture executed pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten shall comply with the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended and then in effect.  Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provisions of this Article Ten, this Indenture shall be and be deemed to be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Indenture of the Trustee, the Company, the Guarantor (if applicable) and the Holders of Securities shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental indenture shall be and be deemed to be part of the terms and conditions of this Indenture for any and all purposes.
 
The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 7.01 and 7.02, shall be given an Opinion of Counsel, an Officers' Certificate, and an Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture as conclusive evidence that any such supplemental indenture complies with the provisions of this Article Ten.
 
Section 10.04.
                             
Notation on Securities
.  Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to the provision of this Article Ten may bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture.  New Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Board of Directors, to any modification of this Indenture contained in any such supplemental indenture may be prepared by the Company, authenticated by the Trustee and delivered, without charge to the Securityholders, in exchange for the Securities of such series then Outstanding.
 
Section 11.01.
                             
Company and Guarantor May Consolidate, etc., Only on Certain Terms
.  So long as any Securities shall be Outstanding, neither the Company nor, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall consolidate with or merge or convert into any other Person or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person (without the consent of any Holder of any series of Securities issued hereunder) unless:
 
(a)
                                
(1) The Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, is the surviving entity, or (2) the Person formed by such consolidation or conversion or into which the Company or the Guarantor, as applicable, is merged or converted or the Person which acquires by conveyance or transfer, or which leases, the properties and assets of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, substantially as an entirety:
(i)
            
expressly assumes, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, in the case of the Company, the due and punctual payment of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed or, in the case of the Guarantor, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the due and punctual payment of all payment obligations under the Guarantee and the performance of every other covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Guarantor to be performed or observed and which supplemental indenture shall provide for conversion or exchange rights in accordance with the provisions of the Securities of any series that are convertible or exchangeable into Shares or other securities, if any such Securities are then outstanding; and
(ii)
         
in the case of the Guarantor, is a corporation or other entity organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
 
(b)
                                
immediately after giving effect to such transaction and treating any indebtedness which becomes an obligation of the Company or the Guarantor, as applicable, as a result of such transaction as having been incurred by the Company or the Guarantor, as applicable, at the time of such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have happened and be continuing; and
 
(c)
                                 
the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate or the Guarantor has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor, as the case may be, and, in either case, an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conversion, conveyance, transfer or lease and, if a supplemental indenture is required in connection with such transaction, such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with.
 
Section 11.02.
                             
Successor Person Substituted
.  So long as any Securities shall be outstanding, upon any consolidation, merger or conversion, or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company or the Guarantor substantially as an entirety, in accordance with Section 11.01, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company or the Guarantor, as applicable, is merged or converted or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities.
 
Section 12.01.          Discharge of Indenture
.  This Indenture shall, upon the receipt of a Company Order by the Trustee, cease to be of further effect (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer or exchange of Securities herein expressly provided for) with respect to any series of Securities specified in such Company Order, and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series, when
 
(a)           either:
 
(i)    all Securities of such series theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (A) Securities of such series which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 2.07 and (B) Securities of such series for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited
in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 12.04) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or
 
(ii)   all such Securities of such series not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation:
 
(A)               have become due and payable; or
 
(B)               will become due and payable at their stated maturity within one year; or
 
(C)               are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company;
 
and the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor in the case of (A), (B) or (C) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, including the principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, and Additional Amounts known, at the time of such deposit, to be payable (if any) with respect to such Securities, to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the stated maturity or date of redemption, as the case may be;
 
(b)           the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series; and
(c)           the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture as to such series have been complied with.
 
Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to any series of Securities, the following rights of the Holders and obligations of the Trustee, the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall survive such satisfaction and discharge:
 
(i)    All obligations under Section 7.06;
 
(ii)   If money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (ii) of clause (a) of this Section or if money or obligations shall have been deposited with or received by the Trustee pursuant to Section 13.02, all obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.07, 4.02, 4.03, 6.03, 12.02, and 12.04;
 
(iii)  Any rights of Holders of the Securities of such series to require the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor to repurchase or repay, and the obligations of the Company or, if applicable, the Guarantor to repurchase or repay, such Securities at the option of the Holders; and
 
(iv)  Any rights of Holders of the Securities of such series to convert or exchange, and the obligations of the Company to convert or exchange, such Securities into Shares, securities or other property.
 
After any such deposit, the Trustee for such series shall acknowledge in writing the discharge of the Company's and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor's obligations under the Securities of such series and this Indenture with respect to the Securities of such series except for those surviving obligations specified above.
 
Section 12.02.          Deposited Moneys to Be Held in Trust by Trustee
.  Subject to Section 12.04, all moneys deposited with the Trustee pursuant to this Indenture shall be held in trust and applied by it to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent), to the Holders of the particular Securities for the payment or redemption of which such moneys have been deposited with the Trustee, of all sums due and to become due thereon for principal, premium, if any, and interest, if any, and, to the extent provided in Section 12.01(a)(ii), Additional Amounts, if any.
 
Anything in this Article Twelve to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor, as the case may be, from time to time upon request of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, any money held
by it as provided in Section 12.01(a)(ii) which is in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited for the purpose for which such money was deposited.
 
Section 12.03.          Paying Agent to Repay Moneys Held
.  In connection with the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to a series of Securities, all moneys then held by any paying agent under the provisions of this Indenture with respect to such series of Securities shall, upon demand of the Company, be repaid to it or paid to the Trustee and thereupon such paying agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such moneys.
 
Section 12.04.          Return of Unclaimed Moneys
.  Any moneys deposited with or paid to the Trustee or any paying agent for the payment of the principal of and premium,
if any, interest, if any, and, to the extent provided in Section 12.01(a)(ii), Additional Amounts, if any, on any Security and not applied but remaining unclaimed for three years after the date upon which such principal, premium, if any, interest, if any, and Additional Amounts, if any, shall have become due and payable, shall be repaid to the Company by the Trustee or such paying agent on demand, and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter look only to the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor for any payment as unsecured general creditors unless an abandoned property law designates another Person and all liability of the Trustee or any paying agent with respect to such moneys shall thereupon cease.
 
Section 13.01.          Applicability of Article; Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.  Unless pursuant to Section 2.01 provision is made for the inapplicability of either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.02 or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 13.03, then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as the case may be, together with the other provisions of this Article Thirteen, shall be applicable to the Securities of such series, and the Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to the Securities of such series, elect to have either Section 13.02 (unless inapplicable) or Section 13.03 (unless inapplicable) be applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series upon compliance with the applicable conditions set forth below in this Article Thirteen.
 
Section 13.02.          Defeasance and Discharge
.  Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to defease the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall be discharged from their obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "").  Defeasance shall mean that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series, and the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article
defeasance
Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall be deemed to have satisfied all other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same); , , that the following rights, obligations, powers, trusts, duties and immunities shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (a) the rights of Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund provided for in Section 13.04, payments in respect of the principal of and premium, if any, interest, if any, and Additional Amounts known, at the time such defeasance is effected, to be payable, if any, on such Securities when such payments are due, (b) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.02, 5.01, 7.06 and 12.04, (c) the rights, powers, trusts, duties and immunities of the Trustee hereunder; (d) any rights of Holders of the Securities of such series (unless otherwise provided pursuant to Section 2.01 with respect to the Securities of such series)
provided
however
to convert or exchange, and the obligations of the Company to convert or exchange, such Securities into Shares or other securities or property and (e) this Article Thirteen.  Subject to compliance with this Article Thirteen, the Company may exercise its option with respect to defeasance under this Section 13.02 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option with respect to covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 in regard to the Securities of such series.
 
Section 13.03.          Covenant Defeasance
.  Upon the Company's exercise of the option provided in Section 13.01 to obtain a covenant defeasance with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series, the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall be released from their obligations under this Indenture (except any obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 6.02, 7.06 and 7.10) with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the applicable conditions set forth in Section 13.04 are satisfied (hereinafter, "").  Covenant defeasance shall mean that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series, the Company and, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in this Indenture (except any obligations under Sections 2.05, 2.06, 2.07, 4.01, 4.02, 4.04, 5.01, 6.02, 7.06, 7.10 and 12.04), whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein in any such Section or Article or by reason of any reference in any such Section or Article to any other provision herein or in any other document, and such omission to comply shall not constitute an Event of Default under Section 6.01(d) with respect to Outstanding Securities of such series, and the remainder of this Indenture and of the Securities of such series shall be unaffected thereby.
covenant defeasance
 
Section 13.04.          Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance
.  The following shall be conditions to defeasance under Section 13.02 and covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 with respect to the Outstanding Securities of a particular series:
 
(a)           The Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements
of Section 7.09 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Thirteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (i) money in an amount, or (ii) Governmental Obligations which through the schedule payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than the due date of any payment or, if such defeasance or covenant defeasance is to be effected in compliance with subsection (i) below, on the relevant redemption date, as the case may be, money in an amount, or (iii) a combination thereof, sufficient, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee)  to pay and discharge, (A) the principal of (and premium, if any, on), each installment of principal of and premium, if any, interest, if any, and all Additional Amounts known to
be payable at the time of such defeasance or covenant defeasance, as the case may be, on the Outstanding Securities of such series on the stated maturity of or earlier redemption date, as the case may be, with respect to such principal or installment of principal or interest and (B) any mandatory sinking fund payments or analogous payments applicable to the Outstanding Securities of such series on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with terms of this Indenture and of such Securities.  For this purpose, "" means securities that are (I) direct obligations of the government which issued the currency in which the Securities of such series are denominated for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (II) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of such government the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by such government, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depository receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depository receipt, that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depository receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of such Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on such Government Obligation evidenced by such depository receipt.
Government Obligations
provided
 
(b)           No Event of Default or event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing on the date of such deposit or, insofar as subsections 6.01(e) and (f) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period).
 
(c)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound.
(d)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not cause any Securities of such series then listed on any national securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act, as amended, to be delisted.
 
(e)           In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.02, the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (i) the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a private letter ruling pertaining to this transaction or a comparable form of transaction, or (ii) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable Federal income tax law (including, but not limited to, a change in the Internal Revenue Code, proposed, temporary or final Treasury regulations,
Revenue Rulings, Revenue Procedures, Internal Revenue Service Notices, Announcements, and other public announcements), in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred.
 
(f)            In the case of an election with respect to Section 13.03, the Company or, with respect to any series of Securities to which the provisions of Article Fifteen shall apply, the Guarantor shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for Federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to Federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred.
 
(g)           Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company in connection therewith pursuant to Section 3.01.
 
(h)           The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 13.02 or the covenant defeasance under Section 13.03 (as the case may be) have been complied with.
 
(i)            If the moneys or Government Obligations or combination thereof, as the case may be, deposited under clause (a) above are sufficient to pay the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on and, to the extent provided in such clause (a), Additional Amounts with respect to, such Securities provided such Securities are redeemed on a particular redemption date, the Company shall have given the Trustee irrevocable instructions to redeem such Securities on such date and to provide notice of such redemption to Holders as provided in or pursuant to this Indenture.
Section 13.05.          Deposited Money and Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions
.  Subject to the provisions of Section 12.04, all money and Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee  collectively for purposes of this Section 13.05, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 13.04 in respect of the Outstanding Securities of a particular series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any paying agent (including the Company acting as its own paying agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal, premium, if any, interest and Additional Amounts, if any, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law.
 
The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 13.04 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof, other than any such tax, fee or other charge which by law is for the account of the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series.
 
Anything in this Article Thirteen to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon request of the Company, any money or Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 13.04 which, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited for the purpose for which such money or Government Obligations were deposited.
 
Section 14.01.          Indenture and Securities Solely Corporate Obligations
.  No recourse under or upon any obligations covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any covenant or agreement contained in this Indenture, or in any Security, or because of any indebtedness evidenced thereby, shall be had against any past, present or future incorporator, stockholder, officer or director, as such, of the Company, the Guarantor or any successor Person to either of them, either directly or through the Company, the Guarantor or any successor Person, under any rule of law, statute or constitutional provision or by the enforcement of any assessment or by any legal or equitable proceeding or otherwise, all such liability being expressly waived and released by the acceptance of the Securities by the Holders thereof and as part of the consideration for the issue of the Securities.
Section 15.01.          Guarantee
.  The provisions of this Article Fifteen shall be applicable only to, and inure solely to the benefit of, the Securities of any series designated, pursuant to Section 2.01, as being entitled to the benefits of the Guarantee. For purposes of this Article Fifteen, the term "Securities" means, the Securities to which the provisions of this Article Fifteen shall be applicable and the term "Holder" means the person in whose name such a Security is registered on the registration books kept for that purpose in accordance with the terms hereof.
 
The Guarantor hereby fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to and for the benefit of (a) each Holder the due and prompt payment in full of all amounts which may at any time be or become from time to time due and payable by the Company under this Indenture or otherwise with respect to the Securities registered in such Holder's name, and (b) the Trustee and its successors and assigns the due and prompt payment in full of all amounts which may at any time be or become from time to time due and
payable by the Company under this Indenture to the Trustee (each, a "" and, collectively, ""), in the case of both clause (a) and clause (b), at their stated due dates or when otherwise due in accordance with the terms thereof. The Guarantor agrees that any interest on Guaranteed Obligations which accrues after the commencement of any such proceeding (or which would have accrued had such proceeding not been commenced) shall constitute Guaranteed Obligations.
Guaranteed Obligation
Guaranteed Obligations
 
The Guarantor hereby agrees that the guarantee set forth in this Section 15.01 (the "") is a guarantee of the due and punctual payment (and not merely of collection) of Guaranteed Obligations, and shall be full, absolute and unconditional, irrespective of, and shall not be affected by, any invalidity, irregularity or enforceability of this Indenture or any Security, any failure to enforce the provisions of this Indenture or any Security, any waiver, modification or consent granted to the Company with respect thereto, or any other circumstances which may otherwise constitute a legal or equitable discharge of a surety or guarantor. The Guarantor waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, all notices of acceptance of the Guarantee or of the creation, renewal, extension, modification, acceleration, compromise or release of any Security or any obligation under this Indenture, and no such creation, renewal, extension, modification, acceleration, compromise or release of any Security or any obligation under this Indenture shall impair or diminish the Guarantor's obligations under the Guarantee.
Guarantee
 
The Guarantor waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, any requirement that a Holder or the Trustee, in the event of a default in the paying of any Guaranteed Obligation by the Company, first make demand upon or seek to enforce remedies against the Company or first realize upon the collateral, if any, available to such Holder or the Trustee before demanding payment under or seeking to enforce the Guarantee.
 
The Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, in favor of the Holders and the Trustee, any and all of its rights, protections, privileges and defenses provided by applicable law to a guarantor and waives any right of set-off which the
Guarantor may have against any Holder or the Trustee with respect to any Guaranteed Obligations which are or may become payable by the Guarantor to such Holder or the Trustee, as the case may be.
 
The Guarantor hereby waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, diligence, notice of acceptance, presentment, demand for payment, filing of claims with a court in the event of merger or bankruptcy of the Company, any right to require a proceeding first against the Company or any other person, protest, notice of dishonor or non-payment to or on the Guarantor or the Company, notice of any other default, breach or nonperformance of any agreement, covenant or obligation of the Company under this Indenture or any Security, and all notices and demands whatsoever with respect to this Indenture, Securities or any indebtedness evidenced thereby.
 
The Guarantee is a continuing guarantee and nothing save payment in full of each Guaranteed Obligation shall discharge the Guarantor of its obligations under the Guarantee in respect of such Guaranteed Obligation.
 
The Guarantee shall continue to be effective or to be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time any Guaranteed Obligation, in whole or in part, is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by any Holder or the Trustee upon the bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization of the Company or otherwise.
 
The obligations of the Guarantor under the Guarantee shall not be altered, limited or affected by any proceeding, voluntary or involuntary, involving the bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership, reorganization, liquidation or arrangement of the Company or by any defense which the Company may have by reason of the order, decree or decision of any court or administrative body resulting from any such proceeding.  No delay or omission by any Holder or the Trustee to exercise any right under this Guarantee shall impair any such right, nor shall it be construed to be a waiver thereof.
 
Section 15.02.          Subrogation
.  The Guarantor shall be subrogated to all rights of each Holder and the Trustee against the Company in respect of any amounts paid to such Holder or the Trustee, as the case may be, by the Guarantor pursuant to the provisions of the Guarantee; provided, however, that the Guarantor shall not be entitled to enforce, or to receive any payments arising out of or based upon such right of subrogation with respect to Guaranteed Obligations relating to Securities of the same series and like tenor until all such Guaranteed Obligations that are due and payable have been paid in full.
 
Section 15.03.          Notation of Guarantee
.  To further evidence the Guarantee set forth in this Article Fifteen, the Guarantor hereby agrees that a notation of such Guarantee in the form set forth in Annex A hereto shall be endorsed on each Security to which the Guarantee applies and shall be executed on behalf of the Guarantor pursuant to Section 2.03.
 
The Guarantor hereby agrees that its Guarantee set forth in this Article Fifteen shall remain in full force and effect notwithstanding any failure to endorse on each Security to which it applies a notation of such Guarantee.
 
The delivery of any Security by the Trustee, after the authentication thereof hereunder, shall constitute due and valid delivery of any Guarantee designated with respect to the Securities pursuant to Section 2.01 on behalf of the Guarantor.
 
Section 16.01.          Benefits of Indenture Restricted to Parties and Securityholders
.  Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, expressed or implied, shall give or be construed to give to any person, firm or corporation, other than the parties hereto and their successors and the Holders of the Securities, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture or under any covenant or provision herein contained, all such covenants and provisions being for the sole benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and of the Holders of the Securities.
 
Section 16.02.          Provisions Binding on Successors
.  All the covenants, stipulations, promises and agreements in this Indenture contained by or on behalf of the Company or the Guarantor shall bind their respective successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not.
 
Section 16.03.          Addresses for Notices, etc
.  Any notice or demand which by any provision of this Indenture is required or permitted to be given or served by the Trustee or by the Holders of Securities to or on the Company or the Guarantor may be given or served by being deposited postage prepaid first class mail in a post office letter box addressed (until another address is filed by the Company with the Trustee), as follows:  if to the Company, Aon plc, 8 Devonshire Square, London, England, Attention:  Treasurer; and if to the Guarantor, Aon Corporation, 200 East Randolph Street, Chicago, Illinois 60601, Attention: Treasurer.  Any notice, direction, request or demand by the Company or the Guarantor, or any Securityholder to or upon the Trustee shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or made, for all purposes, if given or made in writing at its Corporate Trust Department, 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020, Chicago, Illinois 60602, or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Company by the Trustee.
 
The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon instructions or directions pursuant to this Indenture sent by unsecured e-mail, pdf, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods, provided, however, that the Trustee shall have received an incumbency certificate listing persons designated to give such instructions or directions and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons, which such incumbency certificate shall be amended and replaced whenever a person is to be added or deleted from the listing.  If the Issuer elects to give the Trustee e-mail or facsimile instructions (or instructions by a similar electronic method) and the Trustee in its reasonable discretion elects to act upon such instructions, the Trustee's understanding of such instructions shall be deemed controlling, absent gross negligence or manifest error. The Trustee shall not be liable for any losses, costs or expenses arising directly or indirectly from the Trustee's prior reliance upon and compliance with such instructions notwithstanding such instructions conflict or are inconsistent with a subsequent written instruction. The Issuer agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of any such
electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk or interception and misuse by third parties.
 
Section 16.04.          Evidence of Compliance with Conditions Precedent
.  Upon any application or demand by the Company or the Guarantor to the Trustee to take any action under any of the provisions of this Indenture, the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, shall furnish to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate or Officers' Certificate of the Guarantor, as the case may be, stating that all conditions precedent provided for in this Indenture relating to the proposed action have been complied with and an Opinion of Counsel stating that in the opinion of such counsel all such conditions precedent have been complied with, except that in the case of any such application or demand as to which the furnishing of such documents is specifically required by any provision of this Indenture relating to such particular application or demand, no additional certificate or opinion need be furnished.
 
Each certificate or opinion provided for in this Indenture and delivered to the Trustee with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that the person making such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of such person, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether or not, in the opinion of such person, such condition or covenant has been complied with.
 
In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents.
 
Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company or the Guarantor may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon an Opinion of Counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the opinion with respect to the matters upon which his certificate or opinion is based is erroneous.  Any such Opinion of Counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, a governmental official or officers or any other Person or Persons, stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company or the Guarantor, as the case may be, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate, opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous.
Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture or any Security, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument.
 
Section 16.05.          Legal Holidays
.  Unless otherwise provided in the terms of a Security, in any case where the date of maturity of any interest, premium on or principal of the Securities or the date fixed for redemption, repurchase or repayment of any Securities shall not be a Business Day in a city where payment thereof is to be made, then payment of any interest, premium on, or principal of such Securities need not be made on such date in such city but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on the date of maturity or the date fixed for redemption, repurchase or repayment, and no interest shall accrue for the period after such date.
 
Section 16.06.          Trust Indenture Act to Control
.  If and to the extent that any provision of this Indenture limits, qualifies or conflicts with another provision included in this Indenture which is required to be included in this Indenture by any of Sections 310 to 317, inclusive, of the Trust Indenture Act, such required provision shall control.
 
Section 16.07.          Execution in Counterparts
.  This Indenture may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original; but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
Section 16.08.          New York Contract
.  This Indenture and each Security shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of New York, and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of said State.
 
Section 16.09.          Consent to Service
.  The Company has designated and appointed Corporation Service Company, 80 State Street, Albany, New York 12207-2543, as its authorized agent for service of process in any proceeding arising out of or relating to this Indenture or the Securities of any series brought in any federal or state court sitting in the Borough of Manhattan in The City of New York. By the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company irrevocably submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit or proceeding, and agrees that service of process upon said agent, together with written notice of said service to the Company, shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon the Company, in any such suit or proceeding; provided, that a Security may specify additional jurisdictions as to which the Company may consent to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of its courts with respect to such Security. The Company further agrees to take any and all action, including the execution and filing of any and all such documents and instruments, as may be necessary to continue such designation and appointment of said agent or a successor agent in full force and effect so long as any of the Securities shall be Outstanding.
 
Section 16.10.          Separability
.  In case any one or more of the provisions contained in this Indenture or in the Securities of any series shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions of this Indenture or of such
Securities, but this Indenture and such Securities shall be construed as if such invalid or illegal or unenforceable provision had never been contained herein or therein.
 
Section 16.11.          Assignment
.  The Company will have the right at all times to assign any of its rights or obligations under this Indenture to a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, that, in the event of any such assignment, the Company will remain liable for all such obligations.  Subject to the foregoing, the Indenture is binding upon and inures to the benefit of the parties thereto and their respective successors and assigns.  This Indenture may not otherwise be assigned by the parties hereto.
provided
 
Section 16.12.          Waiver of Jury Trial
.  EACH OF THE COMPANY, THE GUARANTOR AND THE TRUSTEE HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY AND ALL RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS INDENTURE, THE SECURITIES OR THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
 
Section 16.13.          Force Majeure
.  In no event shall the Trustee be responsible or liable for any failure or delay in the performance of its obligations hereunder arising out of or caused by, directly or indirectly, forces beyond its control, including, without limitation, strikes, work stoppages, accidents, acts of war or terrorism, civil or military disturbances, nuclear or natural catastrophes or acts of God, and interruptions, loss or malfunctions of utilities, communications or computer (software and hardware) services; it being understood that the Trustee shall use reasonable best efforts which are consistent with accepted practices in the banking industry to avoid and mitigate the effects of such occurrences and to resume performance as soon as practicable under the circumstances.
 
Section 16.14.          Judgment Currency
.  The Company and the Guarantor severally agree, to the fullest extent that they may effectively do so under applicable law, that:
 
(a)           if for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court it is necessary to convert the sum due in respect of the principal of and premium, if any, and interest, if any, on the Securities of any series (the "Required Currency") into a currency in which a judgment will be rendered (the "Judgment Currency"), the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the day on which final unappealable judgment is entered, unless such day is not a Business Day in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, then, to the extent permitted by applicable law, the rate of exchange used shall be the rate at which in accordance with normal banking procedures the Trustee could purchase in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York the Required Currency with the Judgment Currency on the Business Day in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York preceding the day on which a final unappealable judgment is entered; and
 
(b)           their obligations under this Indenture to make payments in the Required Currency:
(i)            shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender, or any recovery pursuant to any judgment (whether or not entered in accordance with subsection (a) above), in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the actual receipt, by the payee, of the full amount of the Required Currency expressed to be payable in respect of such payments;
 
(ii)           shall be enforceable as an alternative or additional cause of action for the purpose of recovering in the Required Currency the amount, if any, by which such actual receipt shall fall short of the full amount of the Required Currency so expressed to be payable; and
 
(iii)          shall not be affected by judgment being obtained for any other sum due under this Indenture.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Indenture to be duly signed, all as of the day and year first above written.
 
Annex A
 
For value received, the undersigned Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), subject to the provisions in the Indenture and the terms of the Securities of this series, has fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed to and for the benefit of each Holder and the Trustee the due and prompt payment in full of all amounts which may at any time be or become from time to time due and payable by the Company under the Indenture or otherwise with respect to the Securities of this series registered in such Holder's name, at their stated due dates or when otherwise due in accordance with the terms thereof. The obligations of the Guarantor to the Holders of Securities and to the Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee under the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article Fifteen of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Security, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions and (b) appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for the purpose of such provisions.
 
 
Annex B
 
For U.S. Global Securities:
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT").  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY, REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")) AND AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE DATE THEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY OR THE EXPIRATION OF SUCH SHORTER PERIOD AS MAY BE PRESCRIBED BY SUCH RULE 144 (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION) PERMITTING RESALES OF THIS SECURITY WITHOUT ANY CONDITIONS (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") OTHER THAN (1) TO AON PLC (THE "COMPANY") OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (2) IN A TRANSACTION ENTITLED TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE RESALE, PLEDGE OR OTHER TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (4) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (5) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES.  THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS ON RESALE WILL NOT APPLY SUBSEQUENT TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.  THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY OFFER, SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER (A) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (2) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE, TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY AND (B) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE AS TO
 
COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN CONDITIONS TO TRANSFER IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE COMPANY
.
 
For Offshore Global Securities:
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT").  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY, AGREES THAT PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD (AS DEFINED IN THE OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE ESTABLISHING THE TERMS OF THIS SECURITY), UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, THIS SECURITY MAY ONLY BE OFFERED, RESOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED (A) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR (B) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION
.
Annex C
 
               ,        
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020 Chicago, Illinois 60602 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
Terms are used in this Certificate as used in Regulation S ("Regulation S") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), except as otherwise stated herein.
 
[CHECK A OR B AS APPLICABLE.]
 
o
  A.
                 
This Certificate relates to our proposed transfer of $         principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture.  We hereby certify as follows:
 
1.
             
The offer and sale of the Notes was not and will not be made to a person in the United States (unless such person is excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(vi) or the account held by it for which it is acting is excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(i) under the circumstances described in Rule 902(h)(3)) and such offer and sale was not and will not be specifically targeted at an identifiable group of U.S. citizens abroad.
 
2.
             
Unless the circumstances described in the parenthetical in paragraph 1 above are applicable, either (a) at the time the buy order was originated, the buyer was outside the United States or we and any person acting on our behalf reasonably believed that the buyer was outside the United States or (b) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market, and neither we nor any person acting on our behalf knows that the transaction was pre-arranged with a buyer in the United States.
 
3.
             
Neither we, any of our affiliates, nor any person acting on our or their behalf has made any directed selling efforts in the United States with respect to the Notes.
 
4.
             
The proposed transfer of Notes is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
 
5.
             
If we are a dealer or a person receiving a selling concession, fee or other remuneration in respect of the Notes, and the proposed transfer takes place during the Restricted Period (as defined in the Indenture), or we are an officer or director of the Company or an Initial Purchaser (as defined in the Indenture), we certify that the proposed transfer is being made in accordance with the provisions of Rule 904(b) of Regulation S.
 
o
  B.
                 
This Certificate relates to our proposed exchange of $         principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture for an equal principal amount of Notes to be held by us.  We hereby certify as follows:
 
1.
             
At the time the offer and sale of the Notes was made to us, either (i) we were not in the United States or (ii) we were excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(vi) or the account held by us for which we were acting was excluded from the definition of "U.S. person" pursuant to Rule 902(k)(2)(i) under the circumstances described in Rule 902(h)(3); and we were not a member of an identifiable group of U.S. citizens abroad.
 
2.
             
Unless the circumstances described in paragraph 1(ii) above are applicable, either (a) at the time our buy order was originated, we were outside the United States or (b) the transaction was executed in, on or through the facilities of a designated offshore securities market and we did not pre-arrange the transaction in the United States.
 
3.
             
The proposed exchange of Notes is not part of a plan or scheme to evade the registration requirements of the Securities Act.
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this Certificate and are irrevocably authorized to produce this Certificate or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 
Annex D
 
                          ,          
 
The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. 2 N. LaSalle Street, Suite 1020 Chicago, Illinois 60602 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
 
 
Ladies and Gentlemen:
 
TO BE COMPLETED BY PURCHASER IF (1) ABOVE IS CHECKED.
 
This Certificate relates to:
 
[CHECK A OR B AS APPLICABLE.]
 
o
  A.
                 
Our proposed purchase of $         principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture.
 
o
  B.
                 
Our proposed exchange of $         principal amount of Notes issued under the Indenture for an equal principal amount of Notes to be held by us.
 
We and, if applicable, each account for which we are acting in the aggregate owned and invested more than $100,000,000 in securities of issuers that are not affiliated with us (or such accounts, if applicable), as of                   , 20    , which is a date on or since close of our most recent fiscal year.  We and, if applicable, each account for which we are acting, are a qualified institutional buyer within the meaning of Rule 144A ("Rule 144A") under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act").  If we are acting on behalf of an account, we exercise sole investment discretion with respect to such account. We are aware that the transfer of Notes to us, or such exchange, as applicable, is being made in reliance upon the exemption from the provisions of Section 5 of the Securities Act provided by Rule 144A.  Prior to the date of this Certificate we have received such information regarding the Company as we have requested pursuant to Rule 144A(d)(4) or have determined not to request such information.
 
You and the Company are entitled to rely upon this Certificate and are irrevocably authorized to produce this Certificate or a copy hereof to any interested party in any administrative or legal proceeding or official inquiry with respect to the matters covered hereby.
 

Exhibit 4.2
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT").  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY, REPRESENTS THAT IT IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT ("RULE 144A")) AND AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT THIS SECURITY MAY NOT BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED PRIOR TO THE DATE WHICH IS ONE YEAR AFTER THE LATER OF THE ORIGINAL ISSUANCE DATE THEREOF AND THE LAST DATE ON WHICH THE COMPANY OR ANY AFFILIATE THEREOF WAS THE OWNER OF THIS SECURITY OR THE EXPIRATION OF SUCH SHORTER PERIOD AS MAY BE PRESCRIBED BY SUCH RULE 144 (OR ANY SUCCESSOR PROVISION) PERMITTING RESALES OF THIS SECURITY WITHOUT ANY CONDITIONS (THE "RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE") OTHER THAN (1) TO AON PLC (THE "COMPANY") OR ANY OF ITS SUBSIDIARIES, (2) IN A TRANSACTION ENTITLED TO AN EXEMPTION FROM REGISTRATION PROVIDED BY RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (3) SO LONG AS THIS SECURITY IS ELIGIBLE FOR RESALE PURSUANT TO RULE 144A, TO A PERSON WHOM THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER WITHIN THE MEANING OF RULE 144A PURCHASING FOR ITS OWN ACCOUNT OR FOR THE ACCOUNT OF A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER TO WHOM NOTICE IS GIVEN THAT THE RESALE, PLEDGE OR OTHER TRANSFER IS BEING MADE IN RELIANCE ON RULE 144A, (4) IN AN OFFSHORE TRANSACTION IN ACCORDANCE WITH RULE 903 OR 904 OF REGULATION S UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, OR (5) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER APPLICABLE EXEMPTION FROM, OR IN A TRANSACTION NOT SUBJECT TO, THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES.  THE FOREGOING RESTRICTIONS ON RESALE WILL NOT APPLY SUBSEQUENT TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE.  THE HOLDER OF THIS SECURITY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT THE COMPANY RESERVES THE RIGHT PRIOR TO ANY OFFER, SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER (A) PURSUANT TO CLAUSE (2) PRIOR TO THE RESALE RESTRICTION TERMINATION DATE, TO REQUIRE THE DELIVERY OF AN OPINION OF COUNSEL, CERTIFICATIONS OR OTHER INFORMATION SATISFACTORY TO THE COMPANY AND (B) IN EACH OF THE FOREGOING CASES, TO REQUIRE THAT A CERTIFICATE AS TO COMPLIANCE WITH CERTAIN CONDITIONS TO TRANSFER IS COMPLETED AND DELIVERED BY THE TRANSFEROR TO THE COMPANY
.
Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, this Security is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
AON PLC, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of England and Wales (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of [
] ($[
]) on December 12, 2042 and, subject to Section 16.05 of said Indenture, to pay interest thereon from December 12, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each June 12 and December 12, commencing June 12, 2013 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), at the rate of 4.25% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest established by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks to the address of the Holder entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption and repurchase at the option of the respective Holders prior to the stated maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated: December 12, 2012
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the Company entitled "4.25% Senior Notes due 2042" (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2012 (herein called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities of this series will initially be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $[
].  The Company may, from time to time, without the written consent of or notice to holders of the Securities of this series, create and issue under the Indenture additional securities having the same terms and conditions as the Securities of this series (other than the issue date, the issue price and, to the extent applicable, the first date from which interest on such additional securities shall accrue and the first interest payment date for such additional securities) and such additional securities shall be consolidated with and form a single series with the Securities of this series.
 
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 12, 2012, among the Company, the Guarantor and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as dealer managers, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the "Registration Rights Agreement").
 
Additional Interest (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) may accrue on the Securities in certain circumstances pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.  All references herein, in any context, to any interest or other amount payable on or with respect to the Securities shall be deemed to include any Additional Interest payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of this series, in whole at any time, or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 25 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but excluding the redemption date (each such redemption being an "Optional Redemption").
 
If the Company has given notice of Optional Redemption as provided herein and in the Indenture and funds for the redemption of any Securities of this series called for Optional Redemption have been made available on the applicable redemption date, such Securities will cease to bear interest on the date fixed for redemption.  Thereafter, the only right of the Holders of such Securities will be to receive payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
The Company will prepare and mail a notice of an Optional Redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 90 calendar days
prior to the date fixed for such Optional Redemption. On and after the redemption date for an Optional Redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price).
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee is given fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
 
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City, each of which the Company refers to as a Primary Treasury Dealer) and their respective successors and any other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer appointed from time to time by the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the
Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
All terms used but not defined in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
For value received, the undersigned Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), subject to the provisions in the Indenture and the terms of the Securities of this series, has fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed to and for the benefit of each Holder and the Trustee the due and prompt payment in full of all amounts which may at any time be or become from time to time due and payable by the Company under the Indenture or otherwise with respect to the Securities of this series registered in such Holder's name, at their stated due dates or when otherwise due in accordance with the terms thereof. The obligations of the Guarantor to the Holders of Securities and to the Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee under the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article Fifteen of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Security, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions and (b) appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for the purpose of such provisions.
 
 

Exhibit 4.3
 
THIS SECURITY HAS NOT BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, AS AMENDED (THE "SECURITIES ACT").  THE HOLDER HEREOF, BY ACQUIRING THIS SECURITY, AGREES THAT PRIOR TO THE EXPIRATION OF THE DISTRIBUTION COMPLIANCE PERIOD (AS DEFINED IN THE OFFICER'S CERTIFICATE ESTABLISHING THE TERMS OF THIS SECURITY), UNLESS THIS SECURITY IS REGISTERED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, THIS SECURITY MAY ONLY BE OFFERED, RESOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED (A) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR PURSUANT TO ANY OTHER AVAILABLE EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT OR (B) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES IN COMPLIANCE WITH RULE 903 OR 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF THE STATES OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION
.
 
Unless this Security is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company (55 Water Street, New York, New York) to the issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any Security issued upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, this Security is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or such other name as requested by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company and any payment hereon is made to Cede & Co., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL since the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.
 
 
AON PLC, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of England and Wales (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to Cede & Co., as nominee for The Depository Trust Company, or registered assigns, the principal sum of [ - ] ($[ - ]) on December 12, 2042 and, subject to Section 16.05 of said Indenture, to pay interest thereon from December 12, 2012 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually in arrears on each June 12 and December 12, commencing June 12, 2013 (each, an "Interest Payment Date"), at the rate of 4.25% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment.  The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the June 1 or December 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, immediately preceding such Interest Payment Date.  Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a subsequent record date for the payment of such defaulted interest established by the Company, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 15 days prior to such subsequent record date, such record date to be not less than five days preceding the date of payment of such defaulted interest, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture.
 
Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the City of Chicago or the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and
 
private debts; , , that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by wire transfer, other electronic means or mailing checks to the address of the Holder entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register.
provided
however
 
The Securities of this series are subject to redemption and repurchase at the option of the respective Holders prior to the stated maturity as described on the reverse hereof.
 
Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place.
 
Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to herein by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed.
 
Dated: December 12, 2012
 
 
This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture.
 
 
This Security is one of a duly authorized series of securities of the Company entitled "4.25% Senior Notes due 2042" (herein called the "Securities") issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2012 (herein called the "Indenture") between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee," which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered.  The Securities of this series will initially be issued in the aggregate principal amount of $[
].  The Company may, from time to time, without the written consent of or notice to holders of the Securities of this series, create and issue under the Indenture additional securities having the same terms and conditions as the Securities of this series (other than the issue date, the issue price and, to the extent applicable, the first date from which interest on such additional securities shall accrue and the first interest payment date for such additional securities) and such additional securities shall be consolidated with and form a single series with the Securities of this series.
 
The Holder of this Security is entitled to the benefits of the Registration Rights Agreement, dated December 12, 2012, among the Company, the Guarantor and Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC as dealer managers, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time (the "Registration Rights Agreement").
 
Additional Interest (as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement) may accrue on the Securities in certain circumstances pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.  All references herein, in any context, to any interest or other amount payable on or with respect to the Securities shall be deemed to include any Additional Interest payable pursuant to the Registration Rights Agreement.
 
The Company may redeem the Securities of this series, in whole at any time, or in part from time to time, at the Company's option, at a price equal to the greater of (1) 100% of the principal amount of the Securities to be redeemed and (2) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Securities to be redeemed (exclusive of interest accrued to the date of redemption) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months), at a rate equal to the sum of the applicable Treasury Rate (as defined below), plus 25 basis points, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest thereon to but excluding the redemption date (each such redemption being an "Optional Redemption").
 
If the Company has given notice of Optional Redemption as provided herein and in the Indenture and funds for the redemption of any Securities of this series called for Optional Redemption have been made available on the applicable redemption date, such Securities will cease to bear interest on the date fixed for redemption.  Thereafter, the only right of the Holders of such Securities will be to receive payment of the applicable redemption price.
 
The Company will prepare and mail a notice of an Optional Redemption to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed by first-class mail at least 30 and not more than 90 calendar days
 
prior to the date fixed for such Optional Redemption. On and after the redemption date for an Optional Redemption, interest will cease to accrue on the Securities called for redemption (unless the Company defaults in the payment of the redemption price).
 
"Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Quotation Agent as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Securities to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of such Securities.
 
"Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for such redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee is given fewer than five such Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all such quotations, or (iii) if only one Reference Treasury Dealer Quotation is received, such quotation.
 
"Quotation Agent" means the Reference Treasury Dealer appointed by the Company.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer" means each of Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (or their respective affiliates that are primary U.S. government securities dealers in New York City, each of which the Company refers to as a Primary Treasury Dealer) and their respective successors and any other nationally recognized investment banking firm that is a Primary Treasury Dealer appointed from time to time by the Company; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a Primary Treasury Dealer, the Company will substitute therefor another Primary Treasury Dealer.
 
"Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by such Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding such redemption date.
 
"Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for such redemption date.
 
If an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal amount of and accrued and unpaid interest, if any, on the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture.
 
The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth therein.
 
The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be affected under the Indenture at any time by the
 
Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be affected.  The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences.  Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security.
 
No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed.
 
As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registerable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
 
The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $2,000 and integral multiples of $1,000.  As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same.
 
No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
 
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
 
Interest on this Security shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months.
 
All terms used but not defined in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture.
This Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without giving effect to the conflict of laws provisions thereof.
 
I or we assign and transfer this Security to:
 
and irrevocably appoint:
 
as agent to transfer this Security on the books of the Company. The agent may substitute another to act for him.
 
 
 
 
Signatures must be guaranteed by an "eligible guarantor institution" meeting the requirements of the Security Registrar, which requirements include membership or participation in the Security Transfer Agent Medallion Program ("STAMP") or such other "signature guarantee program" as may be determined by the Security Registrar in addition to, or in substitution for, STAMP, all in accordance with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
For value received, the undersigned Guarantor (which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture), subject to the provisions in the Indenture and the terms of the Securities of this series, has fully, unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed to and for the benefit of each Holder and the Trustee the due and prompt payment in full of all amounts which may at any time be or become from time to time due and payable by the Company under the Indenture or otherwise with respect to the Securities of this series registered in such Holder's name, at their stated due dates or when otherwise due in accordance with the terms thereof. The obligations of the Guarantor to the Holders of Securities and to the Trustee pursuant to the Guarantee under the Indenture are expressly set forth in Article Fifteen of the Indenture and reference is hereby made to the Indenture for the precise terms of the Guarantee. Each Holder of a Security, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions and (b) appoints the Trustee attorney-in-fact of such Holder for the purpose of such provisions.
 

Exhibit 4.4
December 12, 2012
 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Citigroup Global Markets, Inc.
Barclays Capital Inc.
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
 
c/o Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Eleven Madison Avenue
New York, New York 10010-3629
 
Dear Sirs:
 
Aon plc, a public limited company organized under the laws of England and Wales (the "Issuer"), proposes to exchange up to $300 million principal amount of Aon Corporation's issued and outstanding 8.205% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due 2027, unconditionally guaranteed by the Issuer (the "Existing Securities"), upon the terms set forth in a dealer manager agreement of even date herewith (the "Dealer Manager Agreement"), for up to $300 million aggregate principal amount of its Senior Notes Due 2042 (the "Initial Securities") to be unconditionally guaranteed (the "Guarantee") by Aon Corporation (the "Guarantor" and together with the Issuer, the "Company").  The Initial Securities will be issued pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of December 12, 2012, (the "Indenture") among the Issuer, the Guarantor and The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (the "Trustee"), and an officers' certificate, dated as of December 12, 2012, setting forth the terms of the Initial Securities (the "Officers' Certificate").  As an inducement to the holders of the Existing Securities to exchange the Existing Securities and in satisfaction of a condition to the obligations of the Company under the exchange offer, the Company agrees with Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC, Citigroup Global Markets, Inc., Barclays Capital Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities LLC (collectively, the "Dealer Managers"), for the benefit of the holders of the Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities (as defined below) (collectively, the "Holders"), as follows:
 
 
1.  .  The Company shall, at its own cost, prepare and, not later than 120 days after (or if the 120th day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) the date of original issue of the Initial Securities (the "Issue Date"), file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") a registration statement (the "Exchange Offer Registration Statement") on an appropriate form under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), with respect to a proposed offer (the "Registered Exchange Offer") to the Holders of Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined in Section 6 hereof), who are not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer, to issue and deliver to such Holders, in exchange for the Initial Securities, a like aggregate principal amount of debt securities (the "Exchange Securities") of the Company issued under the Indenture and the Officers' Certificate and identical in all material respects to the Initial Securities (except for the transfer restrictions relating to the Initial Securities and the provisions
Registered Exchange Offer
 
relating to the matters described in Section 6 hereof) that would be registered under the Securities Act. The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to (i) cause such Exchange Offer Registration Statement to become effective under the Securities Act within 180 days (or if the 180th day is not a business day, the first business day thereafter) after the Issue Date of the Initial Securities (unless the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case within 240 days after the Issue Date of the Initial Securities), (ii) keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective for not less than 30 days (or longer, if required by applicable law) after the date notice of the Registered Exchange Offer is mailed to the Holders (such period being called the "Exchange Offer Registration Period"), and (iii) cause the Registered Exchange Offer to be consummated not later than 60 days following the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
Following the declaration of the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Registered Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Registered Exchange Offer to enable each Holder of Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined in Section 6 hereof) electing to exchange the Initial Securities for Exchange Securities (assuming that such Holder is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act, acquires the Exchange Securities in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and has no arrangements with any person to participate in the distribution of the Exchange Securities and is not prohibited by any law or policy of the Commission from participating in the Registered Exchange Offer) to trade such Exchange Securities from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the Securities Act and without material restrictions under the securities laws of the several states of the United States.
 
The Company acknowledges that, pursuant to current interpretations by the Commission's staff of Section 5 of the Securities Act, in the absence of an applicable exemption therefrom, each Holder which is a broker-dealer electing to exchange Initial Securities, acquired for its own account as a result of market making activities or other trading activities, for Exchange Securities (an "Exchanging Dealer"), is required to deliver a prospectus containing the information set forth in (a) Annex A hereto on the cover, (b) Annex B hereto in the "Exchange Offer Procedures" section and the "Purpose of the Exchange Offer" section, and (c) Annex C hereto in the "Plan of Distribution" section of such prospectus in connection with a sale of any such Exchange Securities received by such Exchanging Dealer pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective and to amend and supplement the prospectus contained therein, in order to permit such prospectus to be lawfully delivered by all persons subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act for such period of time as such persons must comply with such requirements in order to resell the Exchange Securities; provided, however, that (i) in the case where such prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto must be delivered by an Exchanging Dealer, such period shall be the lesser of 180 days and the date on which all Exchanging Dealers have sold all Exchange Securities held by them (unless such period is extended pursuant to Section 3(j) below) and (ii) the Company shall make such prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any resale of any Exchange Securities for a period of not less than 180 days after the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer.
 
The Initial Securities and the Exchange Securities are herein collectively called the "Securities".
 
In connection with the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(a)
                                
mail to each Holder a copy of the prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents;
(b)
                                
keep the Registered Exchange Offer open for not less than 20 business days (or longer, if required by applicable law) after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders;
 
(c)
                                 
utilize the services of a depositary for the Registered Exchange Offer with an address in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, which may be the Trustee or an affiliate of the Trustee;
 
(d)
                                
permit Holders to withdraw tendered Securities at any time prior to the close of business, New York time, on the last business day on which the Registered Exchange Offer shall remain open; and
 
(e)
                                 
otherwise comply with all applicable laws.
 
As soon as practicable after the close of the Registered Exchange Offer, the Company shall:
 
(x)
                                
accept for exchange all the Securities validly tendered and not withdrawn pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer;
 
(y)
                                
deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all the Initial Securities so accepted for exchange; and
 
(z)
                                 
cause the Trustee to authenticate and deliver promptly to each Holder of the Initial Securities, Exchange Securities equal in principal amount to the Initial Securities of such Holder so accepted for exchange.
 
The Officers' Certificate will provide that the Exchange Securities will not be subject to the transfer restrictions set forth in the Indenture and that all the Securities will vote and consent together on all matters as one class and that none of the Securities will have the right to vote or consent as a class separate from one another on any matter.
 
Interest on each Exchange Security issued pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer will accrue from the last interest payment date on which interest was paid on the Initial Securities surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the Initial Securities, from the date of original issue of the Initial Securities.
 
Each Holder participating in the Registered Exchange Offer shall be required to represent to the Company that at the time of the consummation of the Registered Exchange Offer (i) any Exchange Securities received by such Holder will be acquired in the ordinary course of business, (ii) such Holder will have no arrangements or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution of the Initial Securities or the Exchange Securities within the meaning of the Securities Act, (iii) such Holder is not an "affiliate," as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, of the Company or if it is an affiliate, such Holder will comply with the registration and prospectus delivery requirements of the Securities Act to the extent applicable, (iv) if such Holder is not a broker-dealer, that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, the distribution of the Exchange Securities and (v) if such Holder is a broker-dealer, that it will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Initial Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities and that it will be required to acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.
 
Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, the Company will ensure that (i) any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any prospectus forming part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the Securities Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to
be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any prospectus forming part of any Exchange Offer Registration Statement, and any supplement to such prospectus, does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
 
2.  .  If, (i) because of any change in law or in applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the Commission, the Company is not permitted to effect a Registered Exchange Offer, as contemplated by Section 1 hereof, (ii) the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated within 60 days following the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or (iii) any Holder (other than an Exchanging Dealer) is not eligible to participate in the Registered Exchange Offer or, in the case of any Holder (other than an Exchanging Dealer) that participates in the Registered Exchange Offer, such Holder does not receive freely tradeable Exchange Securities on the date of the exchange, the Company shall take the following actions:
Shelf Registration
 
(a)
                                
The Company shall, at its cost, as promptly as practicable (but in no event more than 60 days after so required or requested pursuant to this Section 2, or, if later, 120 days after the Issue Date) file with the Commission and thereafter shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be declared effective (unless it becomes effective automatically upon filing) a registration statement (the "Shelf Registration Statement" and, together with the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, a "Registration Statement") not later than 120 days after filing pursuant to this Section 2 (unless the Shelf Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case not later than 180 days after filing pursuant to this Section 2), or, if later, 180 days after the Issue Date (unless the Shelf Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case not later than 240 days after the Issue Date), on an appropriate form under the Securities Act relating to the offer and sale of the Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined in Section 6 hereof) by the Holders thereof from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution set forth in the Shelf Registration Statement and Rule 415 under the Securities Act (hereinafter, the "Shelf Registration"); provided, however, that no Holder shall be entitled to have the Securities held by it covered by such Shelf Registration Statement unless such Holder agrees in writing to be bound by all the provisions of this Agreement applicable to such Holder.
 
(b)
                                
The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the prospectus included therein to be lawfully delivered by the Holders of the relevant Securities, for a period of one year (or for such longer period if extended pursuant to Section 3(j) below) from the date the Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective or becomes automatically effective upon filing or such shorter period that will terminate when all the Securities covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (i) have been sold pursuant thereto or (ii) are no longer Transfer Restricted Securities (as defined in Section 6 hereof). The Company shall be deemed not to have used commercially reasonable efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement effective during the requisite period if it voluntarily takes any action that would result in Holders of Securities covered thereby not being able to offer and sell such Securities during that period, unless such action is required by applicable law.
 
(c)
                                 
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company shall cause the Shelf Registration Statement and the related prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto, as of its respective effective date, (i) to comply in all material respects with the applicable requirements of the Securities Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission and (ii) not to contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.
3.  .  In connection with any Shelf Registration contemplated by Section 2 hereof and, to the extent applicable, any Registered Exchange Offer contemplated by Section 1 hereof, the following provisions shall apply:
Registration Procedures
 
(a)  The Company shall (i) furnish to each Dealer Manager, prior to the filing thereof with the Commission, a copy of the Registration Statement and each amendment thereof and each supplement, if any, to the prospectus included therein; (ii) include the information set forth in Annex A hereto on the cover, in Annex B hereto in the "Exchange Offer Procedures" section and the "Purpose of the Exchange Offer" section and in Annex C hereto in the "Plan of Distribution" section of the prospectus forming a part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and include the information set forth in Annex D hereto in the Letter of Transmittal delivered pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer; (iii) include within the prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution," which shall contain a summary statement of the positions taken or policies made by the staff of the Commission with respect to the potential "underwriter" status of any broker-dealer that is the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) of Exchange Securities received by such broker-dealer in the Registered Exchange Offer (a "Participating Broker-Dealer"), whether such positions or policies have been publicly disseminated by the staff of the Commission or such positions or policies represent the prevailing views of the staff of the Commission; and (iv) in the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, include in the prospectus included in the Shelf Registration Statement (or, if permitted by Commission Rule 430B(b), in a prospectus supplement that becomes a part thereof pursuant to Commission Rule 430B(f)) that is delivered to any Holder pursuant to Section 3(d) and (f), the names of the Holders, who propose to sell Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, as selling securityholders.
 
(b)
                                
The Company shall give written notice to the Holders of the Securities and any Participating Broker-Dealer from whom the Company has received prior written notice that such Participating Broker-Dealer will be a Participating Broker-Dealer in the Registered Exchange Offer (which notice pursuant to clauses (ii)-(v) hereof shall be accompanied by an instruction to suspend the use of the prospectus until the requisite changes have been made):
 
(i)
                                    
when the Registration Statement or any amendment thereto has been filed with the Commission and when the Registration Statement or any post-effective amendment thereto has become effective;
 
(ii)
                                 
of any request by the Commission for amendments or supplements to the Registration Statement or the prospectus included therein or for additional information;
 
(iii)
                              
of the issuance by the Commission of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, of the issuance by the Commission of a notification of objection to the use of the form on which the Registration Statement has been filed, and of the happening of any event that causes the Company to become an "ineligible issuer," as defined in Commission Rule 405;
 
(iv)
                             
of the receipt by the Company or its legal counsel of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Securities for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose; and
 
(v)
                                
of the happening of any event that requires the Company to make changes in the Registration Statement or the prospectus in order that the Registration Statement or the prospectus do not
contain an untrue statement of a material fact nor omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein (in the case of the prospectus, in light of the circumstances under which they were made) not misleading.
 
(c)
                                 
The Company shall make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal at the earliest possible time, of any order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement.
 
(d)
                                
The Company shall furnish to each Holder of Securities included within the coverage of the Shelf Registration, without charge, at least one copy of the Shelf Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment or supplement thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if the Holder so requests in writing, all exhibits thereto (including those, if any, incorporated by reference).
 
(e)
                                 
The Company shall deliver to each Exchanging Dealer and to any other Holder who so requests, without charge, at least one copy of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules, and, if any such Holder requests, all exhibits thereto (including those incorporated by reference).
 
(f)
                                  
The Company shall, during the Shelf Registration Period, deliver to each Holder of Securities included within the coverage of the Shelf Registration, without charge, as many copies of the prospectus (including each preliminary prospectus) included in the Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such person may reasonably request. The Company consents, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, to the use of the prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by each of the selling Holders of the Securities in connection with the offering and sale of the Securities covered by the prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in the Shelf Registration Statement.
 
(g)
                                 
The Company shall deliver to any Exchanging Dealer, any Participating Broker-Dealer and such other persons required to deliver a prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer, without charge, as many copies of the final prospectus included in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and any amendment or supplement thereto as such persons may reasonably request. The Company consents, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, to the use of the prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto by any Participating Broker-Dealer and such other persons required to deliver a prospectus following the Registered Exchange Offer in connection with the offering and sale of the Exchange Securities covered by the prospectus, or any amendment or supplement thereto, included in such Exchange Offer Registration Statement.
 
(h)
                                
Prior to any public offering of the Securities, pursuant to any Registration Statement, the Company shall register or qualify or cooperate with the Holders of the Securities included therein and their respective counsel in connection with the registration or qualification of the Securities for offer and sale under the securities or "blue sky" laws of such states of the United States as any Holder of the Securities reasonably requests in writing and do any and all other acts or things necessary or advisable to enable the offer and sale in such jurisdictions of the Securities covered by such Registration Statement; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it is not then so qualified or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or to taxation in any jurisdiction where it is not then so subject.
 
(i)
                                    
The Company shall cooperate with the Holders of the Securities to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing the Securities to be sold pursuant to any Registration Statement free of any restrictive legends and in such denominations and registered in such names as the Holders may request a reasonable period of time prior to sales of the Securities pursuant to such Registration Statement.
(j)
                                   
Upon the occurrence of any event contemplated by paragraphs (ii) through (v) of Section 3(b) above during the period for which the Company is required to maintain an effective Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly prepare and file a post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or a supplement to the related prospectus and any other required document so that, as thereafter
delivered to Holders of the Securities or purchasers of Securities, the prospectus will not contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. If the Company notifies the Holders of the Securities and any known Participating Broker-Dealer in accordance with paragraphs (ii) through (v) of Section 3(b) above to suspend the use of the prospectus until the requisite changes to the prospectus have been made, then the Holders of the Securities and any such Participating Broker-Dealers shall suspend use of such prospectus, and the period of effectiveness of the Shelf Registration Statement provided for in Section 2(b) above and the Exchange Offer Registration Statement provided for in Section 1 above shall each be extended by the number of days from and including the date of the giving of such notice to and including the date when the Holders of the Securities and any known Participating Broker-Dealer shall have received such amended or supplemented prospectus pursuant to this Section 3(j). During the period during which the Company is required to maintain an effective Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to this Agreement, the Company will prior to the three-year expiration of that Shelf Registration Statement file, and use commercially reasonable efforts to cause to be declared effective (unless it becomes effective automatically upon filing) within a period that avoids any interruption in the ability of Holders of Securities covered by the expiring Shelf Registration Statement to make registered dispositions, a new registration statement relating to the Securities, which shall be deemed the "Shelf Registration Statement" for purposes of this Agreement.
 
(k)
                                
Not later than the effective date of the applicable Registration Statement, the Company will provide a CUSIP number for the Initial Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, and provide the applicable trustee with printed certificates for the Initial Securities or the Exchange Securities, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with The Depository Trust Company.
 
(l)
                                    
The Company will comply with all rules and regulations of the Commission to the extent and so long as they are applicable to the Registered Exchange Offer or the Shelf Registration and will make generally available to its security holders (or otherwise provide in accordance with Section 11(a) of the Securities Act) an earnings statement satisfying the provisions of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act, no later than 45 days after the end of a 12-month period (or 90 days, if such period is a fiscal year) beginning with the first month of the Company's first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of the Registration Statement, which statement shall cover such 12-month period.
 
(m)
                            
The Company shall cause the Indenture to be qualified under the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, in a timely manner and containing such changes, if any, as shall be necessary for such qualification.  In the event that such qualification would require the appointment of a new trustee under the Indenture, the Company shall appoint a new trustee thereunder pursuant to the applicable provisions of the Indenture.
 
(n)
                            
The Company may require each Holder of Securities to be sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement to furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the distribution of the Securities as the Company may from time to time reasonably require for inclusion in the Shelf Registration Statement, and the Company may exclude from such registration the Securities of any Holder that unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request.
 
(o)
                            
The Company shall enter into such customary agreements (including, if requested, an underwriting agreement in customary form) and take all such other action, if any, as any Holder of the
Securities shall reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Securities pursuant to any Shelf Registration.
 
(p)
                            
In the case of any Shelf Registration, the Company shall (i) make reasonably available for inspection by the Holders of the Securities, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to
the Shelf Registration Statement and any attorney, accountant or other agent retained by the Holders of the Securities or any such underwriter all relevant financial and other records, pertinent corporate documents and properties of the Company and (ii) cause the Company's officers, directors, employees, accountants and auditors to supply all relevant information reasonably requested by the Holders of the Securities or any such underwriter, attorney, accountant or agent in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, in each case, as shall be reasonably necessary to enable such persons, to conduct a reasonable investigation within the meaning of Section 11 of the Securities Act; provided, however, that the foregoing inspection and information gathering shall be coordinated on behalf of the Holders of the Securities, by one counsel designated by and on behalf of such Holders as described in Section 4 hereof.
 
(q)
                            
In the case of any Shelf Registration, the Company, if requested by any Holder of Securities covered thereby, shall cause (i) its counsel to deliver an opinion and updates thereof relating to the Securities in customary form addressed to such Holders and the managing underwriters, if any, thereof and dated, in the case of the initial opinion, the effective date of such Shelf Registration Statement (it being agreed that the matters to be covered by such opinion shall include, without limitation, the due incorporation and good standing of the Company and its subsidiaries; the qualification of the Company and its subsidiaries to transact business as foreign corporations; the due authorization, execution and delivery of the relevant agreement of the type referred to in Section 3(o) hereof; the due authorization, execution, authentication and issuance, and the validity and enforceability, of the applicable Securities; the absence of material legal or governmental proceedings involving the Company and its subsidiaries; the absence of governmental approvals required to be obtained in connection with the Shelf Registration Statement, the offering and sale of the applicable Securities, or any agreement of the type referred to in Section 3(o) hereof; the compliance as to form of such Shelf Registration Statement and any documents incorporated by reference therein and of the Indenture with the requirements of the Securities Act and the Trust Indenture Act, respectively; as of the date of the opinion and as of the effective date of the Shelf Registration Statement or most recent post-effective amendment thereto or most recent prospectus supplement thereto that is deemed to establish a new effective date, as the case may be, the absence from such Shelf Registration Statement and the prospectus and any prospectus supplement included therein, as then amended or supplemented and including any documents incorporated by reference therein, of an untrue statement of a material fact or the omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading; and as of an applicable time identified by such Holders or managing underwriters, the absence from the prospectus included in the Registration Statement, as amended or supplemented at such applicable time and including any documents incorporated by reference therein, taken together with any other documents identified by such Holders or managing underwriters, of an untrue statement of a material fact or the omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading); (ii) its officers to execute and deliver all customary documents and certificates and updates thereof requested by any underwriters of the applicable Securities and (iii) its independent public accountants and the independent public accountants with respect to any other entity for which financial information is provided in the Shelf Registration Statement to provide to the selling Holders of the applicable Securities and any underwriter therefor a comfort letter in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in comfort letters in connection with primary underwritten offerings, subject to receipt of appropriate documentation as contemplated, and only if permitted, by Statement of Auditing Standards No. 72; provided, however, that the foregoing requests shall be coordinated on behalf of the Holders of the Securities by one counsel designated by and on behalf of such Holders as described in Section 4.
(r)
                                   
In the case of the Registered Exchange Offer, if requested by any known Participating Broker-Dealer, the Company shall cause (i) its counsel to deliver to such Participating Broker-Dealer signed opinions in the form set forth in Exhibits A-1 and A-2 of the Dealer Manager Agreement with such changes as are customary in connection with the preparation of a Registration Statement and (ii) its independent public accountants and the independent public accountants with respect to any other entity for
which financial information is provided in the Shelf Registration Statement to deliver to such Participating Broker-Dealer a comfort letter, in customary form, containing statements and information of the type ordinarily included in accountants' comfort letters; provided, however, that the foregoing requests shall be coordinated on behalf of the Participating Broker-Dealers by one counsel designated by and on behalf of such Participating Broker-Dealers.
(s)
                                  
If a Registered Exchange Offer is to be consummated, upon delivery of the Initial Securities by Holders to the Company (or to such other Person as directed by the Company) in exchange for the Exchange Securities, the Company shall mark, or caused to be marked, on the Initial Securities so exchanged that such Initial Securities are being canceled in exchange for the Exchange Securities and in no event shall the Initial Securities be marked as paid or otherwise satisfied.
 
(t)
                                   
The Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to (a) if the Initial Securities have been rated prior to the initial sale of such Initial Securities, confirm such ratings will apply to the Securities covered by a Registration Statement, or (b) if the Initial Securities were not previously rated, cause the Securities covered by a Registration Statement to be rated with the appropriate rating agencies, if so requested by Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of Securities covered by such Registration Statement, or by the managing underwriters, if any.
 
(u)
                                
In the event that any broker-dealer registered under the Exchange Act shall underwrite any Securities or participate as a member of an underwriting syndicate or selling group or "assist in the distribution" (within the meaning of the Conduct Rules (the "Rules") of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ("FINRA")) thereof, whether as a Holder of such Securities or as an underwriter, a placement or sales agent or a broker or dealer in respect thereof, or otherwise, the Company will assist such broker-dealer in complying with the requirements of such Rules, including, without limitation, by (i) if such Rules, including Rule 2720, shall so require, engaging a "qualified independent underwriter" (as defined in Rule 2720) to participate in the preparation of the Registration Statement relating to such Securities, to exercise usual standards of due diligence in respect thereto and, if any portion of the offering contemplated by such Registration Statement is an underwritten offering or is made through a placement or sales agent, to recommend the yield of such Securities, (ii) indemnifying any such qualified independent underwriter to the extent of the indemnification of underwriters provided in Section 5 hereof and (iii) providing such information to such broker-dealer as may be required in order for such broker-dealer to comply with the requirements of the Rules.
 
(v)
                                
The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to take all other steps necessary to effect the registration of the Securities covered by a Registration Statement contemplated hereby.
 
4.  .  The Company shall bear all fees and expenses incurred in connection with the performance of its obligations under Sections 1 through 3 hereof (other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers), whether or not the Registered Exchange Offer or a Shelf Registration is filed or becomes effective, and, in the event of a Shelf Registration, shall bear or reimburse the Holders of the Securities covered thereby for the reasonable fees and disbursements of one firm of counsel designated by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Initial Securities covered thereby to act as counsel for the Holders of the Initial Securities in connection therewith.
Registration Expenses
5.  .  (a)  The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless each Holder of the Securities, any Participating Broker-Dealer and each person, if any, who controls such Holder or such Participating Broker-Dealer within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act (each Holder, any Participating Broker-Dealer and such controlling persons are referred to collectively as the "Indemnified Parties") from and against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities, joint or several, or any actions in respect thereof (including, but not limited to, any losses, claims, damages, liabilities or actions relating to purchases and sales of the Securities) to which each Indemnified Party may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or actions arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in a Registration Statement or prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus or "issuer free writing prospectus," as defined in Commission Rule 433 ("Issuer FWP"), relating to a Shelf Registration, or arise out of, or are based upon, the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and shall reimburse, as incurred, the Indemnified Parties for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by them in connection with investigating or defending any such loss, claim, damage, liability or action in respect thereof; provided, however, that the Company shall not be liable in any such case to the extent that such loss, claim, damage or liability arises out of or is based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission made in a Registration Statement or prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus or Issuer FWP relating to a Shelf Registration in reliance upon and in conformity with written information pertaining to such Holder and furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion therein; provided further, however, that this indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which the Company may otherwise have to such Indemnified Party.  The Company shall also indemnify underwriters, their officers and directors and each person who controls such underwriters within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act to the same extent as provided above with respect to the indemnification of the Holders of the Securities if requested by such Holders.
Indemnification
(b)  Each Holder of the Securities, severally and not jointly, will indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act from and against any losses, claims, damages or liabilities or any actions in respect thereof, to which the Company or any such controlling person may become subject under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or otherwise, insofar as such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or actions arise out of or are based upon any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in a Registration Statement or prospectus or in any amendment or supplement thereto or in any preliminary prospectus or Issuer FWP relating to a Shelf Registration, or arise out of or are based upon the omission or alleged omission to state therein a material fact necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, but in each case only to the extent that the untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission was made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information pertaining to such Holder and furnished to the Company by or on behalf of such Holder specifically for inclusion therein; and, subject to the limitation set forth immediately preceding this clause, shall reimburse, as incurred, the Company for any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by the Company or any such controlling person in connection with investigating or defending any loss, claim, damage, liability or action in respect thereof.  This indemnity agreement will be in addition to any liability which such Holder may otherwise have to the Company or any of its controlling persons.
 
(c)  Promptly after receipt by an indemnified party under this Section 5 of notice of the commencement of any action or proceeding (including a governmental investigation), such indemnified party will, if a claim in respect thereof is to be made against the indemnifying party under this Section 5, notify the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof; but the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve the indemnifying party from any liability that it may have under subsection (a) or (b) above except to the extent that it has been materially prejudiced (through the forfeiture of substantive rights or
defenses) by such failure; and provided further that the failure to notify the indemnifying party shall not relieve it from any liability that it may have to an indemnified party otherwise than under subsection (a) or (b) above.  In case any such action is brought against any indemnified party, and it notifies the indemnifying party of the commencement thereof, the indemnifying party will be entitled to participate therein and, to the extent that it may wish, jointly with any other indemnifying party similarly notified, to assume the defense thereof, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to such indemnified party (who shall not, except with the consent of the indemnified party, be counsel to the indemnifying party), and after notice from the indemnifying party to such indemnified party of its election so to assume the defense thereof the indemnifying party will not be liable to such indemnified party under this Section 5 for any legal or other expenses, other than reasonable costs of investigation, subsequently incurred by such indemnified party in connection with the defense thereof.  No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified party, effect any settlement of any pending or threatened action in respect of which any indemnified party is or could have been a party and indemnity could have been sought hereunder by such indemnified party unless such settlement (i) includes an unconditional release of such indemnified party from all liability on any claims that are the subject matter of such action, and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
(d)  If the indemnification provided for in this Section 5 is unavailable or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party under subsections (a) or (b) above, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) referred to in subsection (a) or (b) above (i) in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative benefits received by the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party on the other from the exchange of the Securities, pursuant to the Registered Exchange Offer, or (ii) if the allocation provided by the foregoing clause (i) is not permitted by applicable law, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect not only the relative benefits referred to in clause (i) above but also the relative fault of the indemnifying party or parties on the one hand and the indemnified party on the other in connection with the statements or omissions that resulted in such losses, claims, damages or liabilities (or actions in respect thereof) as well as any other relevant equitable considerations.  The relative fault of the parties shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company on the one hand or such Holder or such other indemnified party, as the case may be, on the other, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission.  The amount paid by an indemnified party as a result of the losses, claims, damages or liabilities referred to in the first sentence of this subsection (d) shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in connection with investigating or defending any action or claim which is the subject of this subsection (d).  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section 5(d), the Holders of the Securities shall not be required to contribute any amount in excess of the amount by which the net proceeds received by such Holders from the sale of the Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement exceeds the amount of damages which such Holders have otherwise been required to pay by reason of such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission.  No person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the Securities Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation.  For purposes of this paragraph (d), each person, if any, who controls such indemnified party within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such indemnified party and each person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of the Securities Act or the Exchange Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company.
(e)  The agreements contained in this Section 5 shall survive the sale of the Securities pursuant to a Registration Statement and shall remain in full force and effect, regardless of any termination or cancellation of this Agreement or any investigation made by or on behalf of any indemnified party.
 
6.  .  (a)  Additional interest (the "Additional Interest") with respect to the Initial Securities shall be assessed as follows if any of the following events occur (each such event in clauses (i) through (v) below a "Registration Default"):
Additional Interest Under Certain Circumstances
 
(i)
                                    
the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the Commission on or prior to the 120th calendar day following the Issue Date,
 
(ii)
                                 
the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not declared effective on or prior to the 180th calendar day following the Issue Date (unless the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case the 240th calendar day following the Issue Date),
 
(iii)
                              
the Registered Exchange Offer is not consummated on or prior to the 240th calendar day following the Issue Date (unless the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case the 300th calendar day following the Issue Date),
 
(iv)
                             
if required, the Shelf Registration Statement with respect to the Initial Securities is not declared effective on or prior to the later of the 120th calendar day after the date of any event described in Section 2 above (unless the Shelf Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case the 180th calendar day after such event) and the 180th calendar day following the Issue Date (unless the Shelf Registration Statement is reviewed by the Commission, in which case the 240th calendar day following the Issue Date),
 
(v)
                                
either the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or a Shelf Registration Statement has been filed and declared effective but after it becomes effective (A) such Registration Statement thereafter ceases to be effective; or (B) such Registration Statement or the related prospectus ceases to be usable (except as permitted in paragraph (b)) in connection with resales of Transfer Restricted Securities during the periods specified herein because either (1) any event occurs as a result of which the related prospectus forming part of such Registration Statement would include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein in the light of the circumstances under which they were made not misleading, (2) it shall be necessary to amend such Registration Statement or supplement the related prospectus, to comply with the Securities Act or the Exchange Act or the respective rules thereunder, or (3) such Registration Statement is a Shelf Registration Statement that has expired before a replacement Shelf Registration Statement has become effective.
 
Additional Interest will accrue on the Initial Securities from and including the date on which any such Registration Default shall occur to, but excluding, the date on which the Registration Default has been cured, at the rate of 0.25% per year, plus an additional 0.25% per year from and during any period in which the Registration Default has continued for more than 90 days, up to a maximum rate of 0.50% per year. In no event will the additional interest on the Initial Securities exceed 0.50% per year. The Company will have no other liabilities for monetary damages with respect to their registration obligations. With respect to each Holder, the obligation to pay Additional Interest will remain in effect only so long as the Initial Securities held by such Holders are Transfer Restricted Securities.
 
(b)  A Registration Default referred to in Section 6(a)(v)(B) hereof shall be deemed not to have occurred and be continuing in relation to a Shelf Registration Statement or the related prospectus if (i) such Registration Default has occurred solely as a result of (x) the filing of a post-effective amendment to such Shelf Registration Statement to incorporate annual audited financial information with respect to the
Company where such post-effective amendment is not yet effective and needs to be declared effective to permit Holders to use the related prospectus or (y) other material events, with respect to the Company that would need to be described in such Shelf Registration Statement or the related prospectus and (ii) in the case of clause (y), the Company is proceeding promptly and in good faith to amend or supplement such Shelf Registration Statement and related prospectus to describe such events; provided, however, that in any case if such Registration Default occurs for a continuous period in excess of 30 days, Additional Interest shall be payable in accordance with the above paragraph from the day such Registration Default occurs until such Registration Default is cured.
 
(c)  Any amounts of Additional Interest due pursuant to clause (i), (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) of Section 6(a) above will be payable in cash on the regular interest payment dates with respect to the Initial Securities. The amount of Additional Interest will be determined by multiplying the applicable Additional Interest rate by the principal amount of the Initial Securities, multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days such Additional Interest rate was applicable during such period (determined on the basis of a 360-day year comprised of twelve 30-day months), and the denominator of which is 360.
 
(d)  "Transfer Restricted Securities" means each Security until (i) the date on which such Transfer Restricted Security has been exchanged by a person other than a broker-dealer for a freely transferable Exchange Security in the Registered Exchange Offer, (ii) following the exchange by a broker-dealer in the Registered Exchange Offer of an Initial Security for an Exchange Note, the date on which such Exchange Note is sold to a purchaser who receives from such broker-dealer on or prior to the date of such sale a copy of the prospectus contained in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, (iii) the date on which such Initial Security has been effectively registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in accordance with the Shelf Registration Statement or (iv) the date on which such Initial Securities is distributed to the public pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act.
 
7.  .  The Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts to file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act in a timely manner and, if at any time the Company is not required to file such reports, it will, upon the request of any Holder of Initial Securities, make publicly available other information so long as necessary to permit sales of their securities pursuant to Rules 144 and 144A. The Company covenants that it will take such further action as any Holder of Initial Securities may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell Initial Securities without registration under the Securities Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by Rules 144 and 144A (including the requirements of Rule 144A(d)(4)). The Company will provide a copy of this Agreement to prospective purchasers of Initial Securities upon request. Upon the request of any Holder of Initial Securities, the Company shall deliver to such Holder a written statement as to whether it has complied with such requirements. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Section 7 shall be deemed to require the Company to register any of its securities pursuant to the Exchange Act.
Rules 144 and 144A
 
8.  .  If any of the Transfer Restricted Securities covered by any Shelf Registration are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the investment banker or investment bankers and manager or managers that will administer the offering ("Managing Underwriters") will be selected by the Holders of a majority in aggregate principal amount of such Transfer Restricted Securities to be included in such offering.
Underwritten Registrations
 
No person may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such person (i) agrees to sell such person's Transfer Restricted Securities on the basis reasonably provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements.
9.  .
Miscellaneous
 
(a)  .  The provisions of this Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given, except by the Company and the written consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or consents.
Amendments and Waivers
 
(b)  .  All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, first-class mail, facsimile transmission, or air courier which guarantees overnight delivery:
Notices
 
(1)  if to a Holder of the Securities, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company.
 
(2)  if to the Dealer Managers;
 
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC
Eleven Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10010-3629
Attention: Attn: LCD-IBD
 
Confirmed to:
 
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.
388 Greenwich Street
New York, NY 10013
Attention: General Counsel
 
Barclays Capital Inc.
745 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019-6801
Telecopy No.: (646) 834-0584
Attention: Liability Management Group, 5th floor
 
J.P. Morgan Securities LLC
383 Madison Avenue
New York, NY 10179
Fax: (212) 834-6170
Attention: Liability Management Group
 
with a copy to:
 
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP
450 Lexington Avenue
New York, NY 10017
Telecopy No.: (212) 701-5550
Attention: John G. Crowley
b)  if to the Company, at its address as follows:
Aon plc
8 Devonshire Square
London EC2M 4PL
United Kingdom
Telecopy No.: +44-20-7972-9862
Attention: Company Secretary
 
with a copy to:
 
Sidley Austin LLP
787 Seventh Avenue
New York, NY 10019
Telecopy No.: (212) 839-5599
Attention:  Edward D. Ricchiuto
 
All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given:  at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; three business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged by recipient's facsimile machine operator, if sent by facsimile transmission; and on the day delivered, if sent by overnight air courier guaranteeing next day delivery.
 
(c)  .  The Company has not, as of the date hereof, entered into, nor shall it, on or after the date hereof, enter into, any agreement with respect to its securities that is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders herein or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof.
No Inconsistent Agreements
 
(d)  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns.
Successors and Assigns
 
(e)  .  This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement.
Counterparts
 
(f)  .  The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof.
Headings
 
(g)  Law.  THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAWS.
Governing
 
(h)  .  If any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability
 
(i)  .  Whenever the consent or approval of Holders of a specified percentage of principal amount of Securities is required hereunder, Securities held by the Company or its affiliates (other than subsequent Holders of Securities if such subsequent Holders are deemed to be affiliates solely by reason of their holdings of such Securities) shall not be counted in determining whether such consent or approval was given by the Holders of such required percentage.
Securities Held by the Company
(j)   .  By the execution and delivery of this Agreement, the Issuer (i) acknowledges that it has, by separate written instrument, irrevocably designated and appointed Aon Corporation (and any successor entity), as its authorized agent upon which process may be served in any suit or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement that may be instituted in any federal or state court in the State of New York or brought under federal or state securities laws, and acknowledges that Aon Corporation has accepted such designation, (ii) submits to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of any such court in any such suit or proceeding, and (iii) agrees that service of process upon Aon Corporation and written notice of said service to the Issuer shall be deemed in every respect effective service of process upon it in any such suit or proceeding.  The Issuer further agrees to take any and all action, including the execution and filing of any and all such documents and instruments, as may be necessary to continue such designation and appointment of Aon Corporation in full force and effect so long as any of the Securities shall be outstanding.  To the extent that the Issuer may acquire any immunity from jurisdiction of any court or from any legal process (whether through service of notice, attachment prior to judgment, attachment in aid of execution, execution or otherwise) with respect to itself or its property, it hereby irrevocably waives such immunity in respect of this Agreement, to the fullest extent permitted by law.
Agent for Service; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Immunities
 
If the foregoing is in accordance with your understanding of our agreement, please sign and return to the Issuer a counterpart hereof, whereupon this instrument, along with all counterparts, will become a binding agreement among the several Dealer Managers, the Issuer and the Guarantor in accordance with its terms.
 
ANNEX A
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.  The Letter of Transmittal states that by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act.  This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Initial Securities where such Initial Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities.  The Company has agreed that, for a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date (as defined herein), it will make this Prospectus available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale.  See "Plan of Distribution."
 
 
ANNEX B
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Securities, where such Initial Securities were acquired by such broker-dealer as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.  See "Plan of Distribution."
 
 
ANNEX C
Each broker-dealer that receives Exchange Securities for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer must acknowledge that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities.  This Prospectus, as it may be amended or supplemented from time to time, may be used by a broker-dealer in connection with resales of Exchange Securities received in exchange for Initial Securities where such Initial Securities were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities.  The Company has agreed that, for a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date, it will make this prospectus, as amended or supplemented, available to any broker-dealer for use in connection with any such resale.  In addition, until                   , 20 ,  all dealers effecting transactions in the Exchange Securities may be required to deliver a prospectus.(1)
 
The Company will not receive any proceeds from any sale of Exchange Securities by broker-dealers.  Exchange Securities received by broker-dealers for their own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be sold from time to time in one or more transactions in the over-the-counter market, in negotiated transactions, through the writing of options on the Exchange Securities or a combination of such methods of resale, at market prices prevailing at the time of resale, at prices related to such prevailing market prices or negotiated prices.  Any such resale may be made directly to purchasers or to or through brokers or dealers who may receive compensation in the form of commissions or concessions from any such broker-dealer or the purchasers of any such Exchange Securities.  Any broker-dealer that resells Exchange Securities that were received by it for its own account pursuant to the Exchange Offer and any broker or dealer that participates in a distribution of such Exchange Securities may be deemed to be an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act and any profit on any such resale of Exchange Securities and any commission or concessions received by any such persons may be deemed to be underwriting compensation under the Securities Act.  The Letter of Transmittal states that, by acknowledging that it will deliver and by delivering a prospectus, a broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act.
 
For a period of 180 days after the Expiration Date the Company will promptly send additional copies of this Prospectus and any amendment or supplement to this Prospectus to any broker-dealer that requests such documents in the Letter of Transmittal.  The Company has agreed to pay all expenses incident to the Exchange Offer (including the expenses of one counsel for the Holders of the Securities) other than commissions or concessions of any brokers or dealers and will indemnify the Holders of the Securities (including any broker-dealers) against certain liabilities, including liabilities under the Securities Act.
 
(1)  In addition, the legend required by Item 502(e) of Regulation S-K will appear on the back cover page of the Exchange Offer prospectus.
 
 
ANNEX D
o
                                   
CHECK HERE IF YOU ARE A BROKER-DEALER AND WISH TO RECEIVE 10 ADDITIONAL COPIES OF THE PROSPECTUS AND 10 COPIES OF ANY AMENDMENTS OR SUPPLEMENTS THERETO.
 
 
If the undersigned is not a broker-dealer, the undersigned represents that it is not engaged in, and does not intend to engage in, a distribution of Exchange Securities.  If the undersigned is a broker-dealer that will receive Exchange Securities for its own account in exchange for Initial Securities that were acquired as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, it acknowledges that it will deliver a prospectus in connection with any resale of such Exchange Securities; however, by so acknowledging and by delivering a prospectus, the undersigned will not be deemed to admit that it is an "underwriter" within the meaning of the Securities Act.
 

Exhibit 99.1
LONDON, 12 December 2012
(PR NEWSWIRE) 
Aon plc (the "Company") (NYSE: AON) announced today the final results and settlement of its offer to exchange Aon Corporation's outstanding 8.205% Junior Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures due January 2027 (the "Old Notes") for the Company's new Senior Notes due December 12, 2042 (Guaranteed by Aon Corporation) (the "New Notes") and cash (the "Exchange Offer").
 
The Exchange Offer expired at 12:00 midnight, New York City time, at the end of December 11, 2012 (the "Expiration Date").
 
Based on information provided by D.F. King & Co., Inc., the exchange agent for the Exchange Offer, as of the Expiration Date, $165,946,000 aggregate principal amount of the Old Notes had been validly tendered for exchange and not validly withdrawn.
 
In accordance with the terms and conditions of the Exchange Offer, the Company has accepted all of the Old Notes that were tendered for exchange.  The Exchange Offer settled on December 12, 2012.  The Company expects to incur approximately $3 million of costs in unallocated expenses in the fourth quarter for transaction and advisory fees related to the Exchange Offer.
 
The New Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws. Therefore, the New Notes may not be offered or sold in 
the United States
 absent registration or an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and any applicable state securities laws. The Company has entered into a registration rights agreement with respect to the New Notes.
 
This press release is not an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy any security. The Exchange Offer is being made solely by the confidential offering memorandum and related letter of transmittal and only to such persons and in such jurisdictions as is permitted under applicable law.
 
Contacts:
 
Investors:
Scott Malchow
Vice President, Investor Relations
+44 207-086-0100
 
Media:
David Prosperi
Vice President, Global Public Relations
(312) 381-2485
 
This communication contains certain statements related to future results, or states our intentions, beliefs and expectations or predictions for the future which are forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
 
differ materially from either historical or anticipated results depending on a variety of factors.  Potential factors that could impact results include:  general economic conditions in different countries in which Aon does business around the world, including conditions in the European Union relating to sovereign debt and the continued viability of the Euro; changes in the competitive environment; changes in global equity and fixed income markets that could affect the return on invested assets; changes in the funding status of Aon's various defined benefit pension plans and the impact of any increased pension funding resulting from those changes; rating agency actions that could affect Aon's ability to borrow funds; fluctuations in exchange and interest rates that could influence revenue and expense; the impact of class actions and individual lawsuits including client class actions, securities class actions, derivative actions and ERISA class actions; the impact of any investigations brought by regulatory authorities in the U.S., U.K. and other countries; the cost of resolution of other contingent liabilities and loss contingencies, including potential liabilities arising from error and omissions claims against Aon; the failure to retain and attract qualified personnel; the impact of, and potential challenges in complying with, legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which Aon operates, particularly given the global scope of Aon's  businesses and the possibility of conflicting regulatory requirements across jurisdictions in which Aon does business; the effect of the change in global headquarters and jurisdiction of incorporation, including the reaction of clients, employees and other constituents, the effect of compliance with U.K. regulatory regimes or the failure to realize some of the anticipated benefits; the extent to which Aon retains existing clients and attracts new businesses and Aon's ability to incentivize and retain key employees; the extent to which Aon manages certain risks created in connection with the various services, including fiduciary and advisory services, among others, that Aon currently provides, or will provide in the future, to clients; the possibility that the expected efficiencies and cost savings from the merger with Hewitt Associates Inc. ("Hewitt") will not be realized, or will not be realized within the expected time period; the risk that the Aon and Hewitt businesses will not be integrated successfully; Aon's ability to implement restructuring initiatives and other initiatives intended to yield cost savings, and the ability to achieve those cost savings; the potential of a system or network disruption resulting in operational interruption or improper disclosure of personal data; any inquiries relating to compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and non-U.S. anti-corruption laws and with U.S. and non-U.S. trade sanctions regimes; and Aon's ability to grow and develop companies that it acquires or new lines of business. Further information concerning Aon and its business, including factors that potentially could materially affect Aon's financial results, is contained in Aon's filings with the SEC. See Aon's Annual Report on Form 10-K and Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2012, June 30, 2012 and September 30, 2012 and other public filings with the SEC for a further discussion of these and other risks and uncertainties applicable to Aon's businesses. Aon does not undertake, and expressly disclaims, any duty to update any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information, future events or changes in their respective expectations, except as required by law.


