FILE:GS/GS-8K-20051031164317.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Table of Contents
Item 3.03 Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
Upon issuance of the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock (each as defined in Item 5.03 below) on October 31, 2005, the ability of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the "Registrant") to declare or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire, shares of its common stock will be subject to certain restrictions in the event that the Registrant fails to pay dividends on its Series B Preferred Stock or its Series C Preferred Stock. These restrictions are set forth in the Certificate of Designations establishing the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, a copy of which is listed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference, and in the Certificate of Designations establishing the terms of the Series C Preferred Stock, a copy of which is listed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On October 28, 2005, the Registrant filed a Certificate of Designations to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, setting forth the terms of its 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (the "Series B Preferred Stock"). A copy of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Series B Preferred Stock is listed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Also on October 28, 2005, the Registrant filed a Certificate of Designations to its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, setting forth the terms of its Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, liquidation preference $25,000 per share (the "Series C Preferred Stock"). A copy of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Series C Preferred Stock is listed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 8.01 Other Events.
Additional exhibits are filed herewith in connection with the offering, issuance and sale of depositary shares representing interests in each of the Registrant's Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock under the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-128461).
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


