FILE:GS/GS-8K-20050408163957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On April 6, 2005, Mr. Stephen Friedman was elected to the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the "Registrant") at the Registrant's 2005 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the "Annual Meeting"). In connection with Mr. Friedman's election, the Registrant entered into a letter agreement, dated April 6, 2005 (the "Agreement"), similar to the agreements regarding nonemployee director compensation entered into with the Registrant's other nonemployee directors, which compensation is described in the Registrant's most recent proxy statement. Under the Agreement, which remains in effect until modified by the Registrant's Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Board of Directors, Mr. Friedman, for his services as director, will receive each year that he serves as a director: (i) a $75,000 annual retainer (the "Annual Retainer"), which will be in the form of fully vested restricted stock units ("RSUs") for fiscal 2005 and, after that, at Mr. Friedman's election, in the form of fully vested RSUs or cash; and (ii) an annual grant (the "Annual Grant"), which will be in RSUs for fiscal 2005 and, after that, at Mr. Friedman's election, in the form of (a) 3,000 fully vested RSUs, (b) fully vested options ("Options") to purchase 9,000 shares of the Registrant's common stock or (c) 1,500 fully vested RSUs and fully vested Options to purchase 4,500 shares of the Registrant's common stock. Mr. Friedman's prorated fiscal 2005 Annual Retainer is $50,000 (to be converted into RSUs) and prorated fiscal 2005 Annual Grant is 2,000 RSUs. A copy of the Agreement is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
At the Annual Meeting, the Registrant's shareholders, by an affirmative vote of more than 85% of the outstanding shares of the Registrant's common stock and 98% of the shares voted at the Annual Meeting, approved amendments to the Registrant's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to provide for the annual election of all of its directors (the "Amendments"). The Amendments became effective upon the filing of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 6, 2005 (the "Filing"). A copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
In addition, the Registrant's Board of Directors adopted certain conforming changes to the Registrant's Amended and Restated By-Laws (the "By-Laws"), which became effective upon the Filing. The changes to the By-Laws delete references to the classification of directors, replace references to the directors' three-year terms with references to one-year terms and make certain other minor changes. A copy of the By-Laws as amended is filed as Exhibit 3.2 to this Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 3.1
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC., a corporation organized and existing under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "Corporation"), does hereby certify:
1. The name of the Corporation is The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The date of filing of its original certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was July 21, 1998.
2. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation amends, restates and integrates the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and has been duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware by the favorable vote of the holders of more than 80% of the outstanding stock entitled to vote thereon:
 
Except as set forth in this Article FOURTH, the Common Stock and the Nonvoting Common Stock (together, the "Common Shares") shall have the same rights and privileges and shall rank equally, share ratably and be identical in all respects as to all matters.
 
Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series from time to time as determined by the board of directors of the Corporation, and the board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and
 
the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of each series of Preferred Stock, including the following:
 
For all purposes, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall include each certificate of designations (if any) setting forth the terms of a series of Preferred Stock.
Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock set forth in a certificate of designations, an amendment of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) may be adopted by resolution adopted by the board of directors of the Corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class, and no vote of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, shall be required therefor.
Except as otherwise required by law or provided in the certificate of designations for the relevant series, holders of Common Shares, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation that alters or changes the powers, preferences, rights or other terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other series of Preferred Stock, to vote thereon as a separate class pursuant to this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law as then in effect.
 
The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to create and issue options, warrants and other rights from time to time entitling the holders thereof to purchase securities or other property of the Corporation or any other entity, including any class or series of stock of the Corporation or any other entity and whether or not in connection with the issuance or sale of any securities or other property of the Corporation, for such consideration (if any), at such times and upon such other terms and conditions as may be determined or authorized by the board of directors of the Corporation and set forth in one or more agreements or instruments. Among other things and without limitation, such terms and conditions may provide for the following:
This paragraph shall not be construed in any way to limit the power of the board of directors of the Corporation to create and issue options, warrants or other rights.
FIFTH. The name and mailing address of the incorporator is Gregory K. Palm, 85 Broad Street, New York, New York 10004.
SIXTH. All corporate powers shall be exercised by the board of directors of the Corporation, except as otherwise specifically required by law or as otherwise
 
provided in this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Any meeting of stockholders may be postponed by action of the board of directors at any time in advance of such meeting. The board of directors of the Corporation shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as they may deem proper and the power to adjourn any meeting of stockholders without a vote of the stockholders, which powers may be delegated by the board of directors to the chairman of such meeting either in such rules and regulations or pursuant to the by-laws of the Corporation.
Special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called at any time by, but only by, the board of directors of the Corporation, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.
The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to adopt, amend or repeal by-laws of the Corporation. No adoption, amendment or repeal of a by-law by action of stockholders shall be effective unless approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Article SIXTH shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders that may be required by law, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise.
SEVENTH. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot except and to the extent provided in the by-laws of the Corporation.
EIGHTH. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed only by resolution of the board of directors of the Corporation from time to time. Each director who is serving as a director on the date of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders after such date and until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified, notwithstanding that such director may have been elected for a term that extended beyond the date of such next annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders after the date of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, directors elected at such annual meeting shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
Any director may be removed, with or without cause, with the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, considered for this purpose as a single class.
 
Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or from any other cause (other than vacancies and newly created directorships which the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are expressly entitled by this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to fill) shall be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director appointed to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect any directors of the Corporation, then the number of directors that may be elected by such holders voting separately as a class shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided in the terms of such class or series, (i) the terms of the directors elected by such holders voting separately as a class shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding their election and (ii) any director or directors elected by such holders voting separately as a class may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote separately as a class in an election of such directors.
NINTH. In taking any action, including action that may involve or relate to a change or potential change in the control of the Corporation, a director of the Corporation may consider, among other things, both the long-term and short-term interests of the Corporation and its stockholders and the effects that the Corporation's actions may have in the short term or long term upon any one or more of the following matters:
 
Nothing in this Article NINTH shall create any duty owed by any director of the Corporation to any person or entity to consider, or afford any particular weight to, any of the foregoing matters or to limit his or her consideration to the foregoing matters. No such employee, retired former partner of GS Group, former employee, beneficiary, customer, creditor or community or member thereof shall have any rights against any director of the Corporation or the Corporation under this Article NINTH.
TENTH. From and after the consummation of the initial public offering of the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, no action of stockholders of the Corporation required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting of stockholders, without prior notice and without a vote, and the power of stockholders of the Corporation to consent in writing to the taking of any action without a meeting is specifically denied. Notwithstanding this Article TENTH, the holders of any series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to take action by written consent to such extent, if any, as may be provided in the terms of such series.
ELEVENTH. No provision of Articles SIXTH, NINTH, TENTH or TWELFTH or of this Article ELEVENTH or of the second paragraph of Article EIGHTH shall be amended, modified or repealed, and no provision inconsistent with any such provision shall become part of this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, unless such matter is approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than 80% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Article ELEVENTH shall be in addition to any other vote of the stockholders that may be required by law, this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise.
TWELFTH. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director of the Corporation, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.
Pursuant to the Plan of Incorporation of GS Group, dated as of March 8, 1999, as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended (the "Plan"), the Corporation has the right, but not the obligation, to make special arrangements with any person who was a partner of GS Group participating in the Plan to ameliorate, in whole or in part, certain significantly disproportionate tax or other burdens. The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to cause the Corporation to make such arrangements (which may include special payments) as the board of directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem appropriate to effectuate the intent of
 
the relevant provision of the Plan and the Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any such determination and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of the making of such arrangements.
Pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation has the right, but not the obligation, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission the resale of certain securities of the Corporation by directors, employees and former directors and employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates and former partners and employees of GS Group and its subsidiaries and affiliates and to undertake various actions and to enter into agreements and arrangements in connection therewith (collectively, the "Registration Arrangements"). The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to cause the Corporation to undertake such Registration Arrangements as the board of directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem appropriate and the Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any such determination and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of the undertaking of such Registration Arrangements.
The Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any decision by the board of directors of the Corporation to make the Contribution referred to in Article THIRD, including the amount thereof (up to the limit specified in Article THIRD) and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of any such decision to make, or the making of, the Contribution.
The authorizations, approvals and ratifications contained in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH shall not be construed to indicate that any other arrangements or contributions not specifically referred to in such paragraphs are, by reason of such omission, not within the power and authority of the board of directors of the Corporation or that the determination of the board of directors of the Corporation with respect thereto should be judged by any legal standard other than that which would have applied but for the inclusion of the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH.
No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article TWELFTH shall adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation that exists at the time of such amendment, modification or repeal.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed and attested by its duly authorized officer on this 6th day of April, 2005.

 
EXHIBIT 3.2
As amended by the Board of Directors effective as of April 6, 2005
Section 1.1. . An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other business properly brought before the meeting may be transacted at the annual meeting.
Annual Meetings
Section 1.2. . Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by, and only by, the Board of Directors, to be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Special Meetings
Section 1.3. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise required by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation.
Notice of Meetings
Section 1.4. . Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time, to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
Section 1.5. . At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the holders of a
Quorum
 
majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on a matter at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. For purposes of the foregoing, where a separate vote by class or classes is required for any matter, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. Two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum of the holders of any class of stock entitled to vote on a matter, the meeting of such class may be adjourned from time to time in the manner provided by Sections 1.4 and 1.6 of these by-laws until a quorum of such class shall be so present or represented. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Section 1.6. . Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by a Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman of the Board by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman of the Board by a Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer by a President, or in the absence of a President by a Chief Operating Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Operating Officer by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. A Secretary, or in the absence of a Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to adjourn a meeting of stockholders without a vote of stockholders and to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting and are not inconsistent with any rules or regulations adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, including the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls for each item upon which a vote is to be taken.
Section 1.7. . Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer, a Vice President or any other officer designated by the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to
Inspectors
 
act at the meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons to assist them in the performance of their duties. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxy or vote, nor any revocation thereof or change thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted therewith, any information provided by a stockholder who submits a proxy by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission from which it can be determined that the proxy was authorized by the stockholder, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, and they may also consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for such purpose, they shall, at the time they make their certification, specify the precise information considered by them, including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
Section 1.8. . Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. If the certificate of incorporation provides for more or less than one vote for any share on any matter, every reference in these by-laws to a majority or other proportion of shares of stock shall refer to such majority or other proportion of the votes of such shares of stock. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power, regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with a Secretary. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting or the Board of Directors. Directors shall be elected by a plurality of the
Voting; Proxies
 
votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. In all other matters, unless otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a majority of the votes cast for or against the matter at the meeting by stockholders entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of the stockholders. Where a separate vote by class or classes is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority (or, in the case of an election of directors, a plurality) of the votes cast for or against the matter at the meeting by stockholders in that class or classes entitled to vote on the subject matter shall be the act of such class or classes, except as otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
Section 1.9. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than sixty days prior to the action for which a record date is being established. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Section 1.10. . A Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the municipality where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
 
Section 1.11. . (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11.
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals
(b) For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of stockholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 1.11(b)(x) by a stockholder that holds of record stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting on such matter (including any election of a director) or (y) by a person (a "Nominee Holder") that holds such stock through a nominee or "street name" holder of record of such stock and can demonstrate to the Corporation such indirect ownership of, and such Nominee Holder's entitlement to vote, such stock on such matter. In addition to any other requirements under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation and these by-laws, persons nominated by stockholders for election as directors of the Corporation and any other proposals by stockholders shall be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a stockholder at such meeting (a "Stockholder Notice") shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than ninety nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty days before and ends thirty days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Stockholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of (i) the close of business on the date ninety days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth day following the date on which such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed. Any stockholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth the name of the person or persons to be nominated, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such stockholder by such person, the information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation if elected, such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock for the election of directors at the annual meeting. Any stockholder who gives a Stockholder Notice of any matter (other than a nomination for director) proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such stockholder favors the proposal and setting forth such
 
stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder, any material interest of such stockholder in the matter proposed (other than as a stockholder), if applicable, and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock on the matter proposed at the annual meeting. As used in these by-laws, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"). If a stockholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such stockholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors.
Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 1.11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders is increased by virtue of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting of stockholders or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Corporation at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder Notice shall also be considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees to stand for election at the next annual meeting as the result of any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which all such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
(c) Except as provided in the immediately following sentence, no matter shall be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders unless such matter shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of such meeting. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of such director(s) at such meeting may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of such meeting, but only if the Stockholder Notice required by Section 1.11(b) hereof shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of all nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
(d) For purposes of this Section 1.11, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
(e) In no event shall the adjournment of an annual meeting or a special meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 1.11. This Section 1.11 shall not apply to (i) any stockholder proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act or (ii) any nomination of a director in an election in which only the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation issued pursuant to Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation are entitled to vote (unless otherwise provided in the terms of such stock).
(f) The chairman of any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 1.11 and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters shall not be considered.
Section 1.12. . Except as otherwise required by law, any matter (other than a nomination for director) that has been properly brought before an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation by a stockholder (including a Nominee Holder) in compliance with the procedures set forth in Section 1.11 shall require for approval thereof the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class. Any vote of stockholders required by this Section 1.12 shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation that may be required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, by any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise.
Approval of Stockholder Proposals
Section 2.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise required by law or provided in the certificate of incorporation. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed only by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. If the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled by the certificate of incorporation to elect one or more directors, the preceding sentence shall not apply to such directors and the number of such directors shall be as provided in the terms of such stock. Directors need not be stockholders.
Powers; Number; Qualifications
Section 2.2. . Each director who is serving as a director on the effective date of these Amended and Restated By-Laws shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders after such date, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal, notwithstanding that such director may have been elected for a term that extended beyond the date of such next annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual
Election; Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
 
meeting of stockholders after the effective date of these Amended and Restated By-Laws, directors elected at such annual meeting shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or to a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer or a Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. No director may be removed except as provided in the certificate of incorporation. Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors (other than any directors elected in the manner described in the next sentence) or from any other cause shall be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled by the certificate of incorporation to elect one or more directors, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected. Any director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Section 2.3. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given.
Regular Meetings
Section 2.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Board, by a Chairman of the Board, if any, by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, by a Chairperson of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, if any, by a Chief Executive Officer, if any, by a President, if any, by a Chief Operating Officer, if any, or by any two directors. Reasonable notice thereof shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting.
Special Meetings
Section 2.5. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this by-law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted
Section 2.6. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, one-half of the number of directors equal to (i) the total number of directors fixed by resolution of the board of directors (including any vacancies) plus (ii) the number of directors elected by a holder or holders of Preferred Stock voting separately as a class, as described in the fourth paragraph of Article EIGHTH of the certificate of
Quorum; Vote Required for Action
 
incorporation (including any vacancies), shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws shall require a vote of a greater number. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, the members or a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Section 2.7. . Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by a Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman of the Board by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman of the Board, by a Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, by a President, or in the absence of a President, by a Chief Operating Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Operating Officer, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. A Secretary, or in the absence of a Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
Section 2.8. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, then in office consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting
Section 2.9. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation of Directors
Section 3.1. . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors or in these by-laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or
Committees
 
matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing these by-laws.
Section 3.2. . Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the entire authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these by-laws.
Committee Rules
Section 4.1. . The Board of Directors shall take such action as may be necessary from time to time to ensure that the Corporation has such officers as are necessary, under Section 5.1 of these by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended, to enable it to sign stock certificates. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may elect (i) one or more Chairmen of the Board and/or one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board from among its members, (ii) one or more Chief Executive Officers, one or more Presidents and/or one or more Chief Operating Officers, (iii) one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Treasurers and/or one or more Secretaries and/or (iv) one or more other officers, in the case of each of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) if and to the extent the Board deems desirable. The Board of Directors may give any officer such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may authorize any officer of the Corporation to appoint one or more officers of the kind described in clauses (iii) and (iv) above. Any number of offices may be held by the same person and directors may hold any office unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws otherwise provide.
Officers; Election or Appointment
Section 4.2. . Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing or authorizing the appointment of any officer, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to such person or persons as the Board may designate. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold an office of the Corporation may also remove such person from such office with or without cause at any time, unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board providing such authorization. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election or
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
 
appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled by the Board at any regular or special meeting or by an officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold such office.
Section 4.3. . The officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in these by-laws or in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these by-laws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. A Secretary or such other officer appointed to do so by the Board shall have the duty to record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and any committees in a book to be kept for that purpose. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
Powers and Duties
Section 5.1. . The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any such shares represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution or resolutions by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, every holder of stock represented by certificates, and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares, shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by a Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board or a President or Vice President, and by a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares of stock in the Corporation owned by such holder. If such certificate is manually signed by one officer or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation may bear such legends regarding restrictions on transfer or other matters as any officer or officers of the Corporation may determine to be appropriate and lawful.
Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise required by law,
 
in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series of stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares of any class or series of stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required by law to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of such class or series or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
Except as otherwise expressly provided by law, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
Section 5.2. . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
Section 6.2. . The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Seal
Section 6.3. . Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or
Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees
 
members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
Section 6.4. . The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, is or was a member of the Shareholders' Committee acting pursuant to the Amended and Restated Shareholders' Agreement, dated as of May 7, 1999, and amended as of June 22, 2004, among the Corporation and the Covered Persons listed on Appendix A thereto, as amended from time to time, or serves or served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise. Expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding shall be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation promptly upon demand by such person and, if any such demand is made in advance of the final disposition of any such action, suit or proceeding, promptly upon receipt by the Corporation of an undertaking of such person to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. The rights provided to any person by this by-law shall be enforceable against the Corporation by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer or in such other capacity as provided above. In addition, the rights provided to any person by this by-law shall survive the termination of such person as any such director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator and, insofar as such person served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise, shall survive the termination of such request as to service prior to termination of such request. No amendment of this by-law shall impair the rights of any person arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment.
Indemnification
Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 6.4, except for proceedings to enforce rights provided in this Section 6.4, the Corporation shall not be obligated under this Section 6.4 to provide any indemnification or any payment or reimbursement of expenses to any director, officer or other person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person (which shall not include counterclaims or crossclaims initiated by others) unless the Board of Directors has authorized or consented to such proceeding (or part thereof) in a resolution adopted by the Board.
For purposes of this by-law, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the economic or voting ownership interest; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity and any employee benefit plan; the term "officer," when used with respect to the Corporation, shall refer to any officer elected by or appointed pursuant to authority granted by the
 
Board of Directors of the Corporation pursuant to clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.1 of these by-laws, when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is a corporation, shall refer to any person elected or appointed pursuant to the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or chosen in such manner as is prescribed by the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or determined by the board of directors of such Subsidiary or other enterprise, and when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is not a corporation or is organized in a foreign jurisdiction, the term "officer" shall include in addition to any officer of such entity, any person serving in a similar capacity or as the manager of such entity; service "at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director or officer of the Corporation which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation.
To the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Corporation may provide to (i) any one or more employees and other agents of the Corporation, (ii) any one or more officers, employees and other agents of any Subsidiary and (iii) any one or more directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in this Section 6.4 on directors and officers of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or other enterprise. Any such rights shall have the same force and effect as they would have if they were conferred in this Section 6.4.
Nothing in this Section 6.4 shall limit the power of the Corporation or the Board of Directors to provide rights of indemnification and to make payment and reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, to directors, officers, employees, agents and other persons otherwise than pursuant to this Section 6.4.
Section 6.5. . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity in which one or more of its directors or officers serve as directors, officers, trustees or in a similar capacity or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (i) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; (ii) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are
Interested Directors; Quorum
 
known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by a vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Section 6.6. . Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs, microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
Form of Records
Section 6.7. . (a) For purposes of these by-laws, any reference to a statute, rule or regulation of any governmental body means such statute, rule or regulation (including any successor thereto) as the same may be amended from time to time.
Laws and Regulations; Close of Business
(b) Any reference in these by-laws to the close of business on any day shall be deemed to mean 5:00 P.M. New York time on such day, whether or not such day is a business day.
Section 6.8. . These by-laws may be amended, modified or repealed, and new by-laws may be adopted at any time, by the Board of Directors. Stockholders of the Corporation may adopt additional by-laws and amend, modify or repeal any by-law whether or not adopted by them, but only in accordance with Article SIXTH of the certificate of incorporation.
Amendment of By-Laws

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
April 6, 2005                              
Dear Mr. Friedman:
We are all very pleased that our shareholders have elected you as a member of the Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ("GS Inc."). I am writing to set forth the terms of your compensation as a nonmanagement director. The terms of your compensation will remain in effect until modified by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and the Board.
Your term as a director commences today, April 6, 2005, and will run through the next annual meeting of shareholders of GS Inc.
As compensation for your services, you will receive each year you serve as a director:
 
The Annual Retainer is paid annually in arrears. The Annual Grant is paid annually in advance of the fiscal year to which it pertains.
For fiscal 2005, you will receive each of the Annual Retainer and Annual Grant prorated from the date of your election. Your prorated fiscal 2005 Annual Grant (to be granted in April 2005) and prorated fiscal 2005 Annual Retainer (to be granted at the end of fiscal 2005) are as follows:
 
Future RSUs or Options granted to you for the Annual Grant will be granted on the same date as the prior fiscal year's year-end equity awards are granted to employees of GS Inc. and its affiliates who are subject to Section 16 of the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Section 16 Persons") or, if no such awards are granted, on the last business day of December in the fiscal year to which the Annual Grant pertains.
Any future RSUs granted to you for the Annual Retainer will be in such number as is determined using the same manner for determining grants to employees for year-end RSUs for that fiscal year or, if no such RSUs are granted, using a grant price equal to the average closing price of GS Inc. Shares on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") over the 10-trading-day period up to and including the last day of the fiscal year. Such RSUs will be granted to you on the same date as fiscal year-end equity awards for such fiscal year are granted to Section 16 Persons or, if no such awards are granted, on the last business day in December immediately following the end of such fiscal year. All RSUs granted as nonmanagement director compensation provide for delivery of GS Inc. Shares on the last business day of May in the year following the year in which you cease to be a director of GS Inc.
Any Options granted to you for the Annual Grant:
All Options and RSUs will be subject to the terms and conditions of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan and the relevant award agreements.
 
I have enclosed various documents in connection with these arrangements. Please complete them as necessary, sign where indicated and return them in the enclosed envelope. The remaining copies are for your records.


