FILE:GS/GS-8K-20100510182833.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
On May 7, 2010, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) held its Annual Meeting of Shareholders at which the shareholders voted upon (i) the election of Lloyd C. Blankfein, John H. Bryan, Gary D. Cohn, Claes Dahlbck, Stephen Friedman, William W. George, James A. Johnson, Lois D. Juliber, Lakshmi N. Mittal, James J. Schiro and H. Lee Scott, Jr. to Group Inc.'s Board of Directors (Board) for one-year terms, (ii) the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Group Inc.'s independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year, (iii) a management-sponsored advisory vote on executive compensation matters, (iv) a management-sponsored proposal to amend Group Inc.'s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to eliminate supermajority voting, (v) a management-sponsored proposal to amend Group Inc.'s Restated Certificate of Incorporation to permit holders of 25% of Group Inc.'s outstanding shares of common stock to call special meetings, (vi) a shareholder proposal regarding cumulative voting, (vii) a shareholder proposal regarding the use of collateral in over-the-counter derivatives trading, (viii) a shareholder proposal regarding the separation of the positions of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chairman of the Board, (ix) a shareholder proposal regarding a report on political contributions, (x) a shareholder proposal regarding a report on global warming science, (xi) a shareholder proposal regarding pay disparity and (xii) a shareholder proposal regarding executive compensation and long-term performance.
The shareholders elected all eleven director nominees, approved the ratification of the appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Group Inc.'s independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year and approved the management-sponsored proposals. The shareholder proposals did not receive the approval of a majority of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and, as a result, were not approved. The number of votes cast for or against and the number of abstentions and broker non-votes with respect to each matter voted upon, as applicable, are set forth below.
 
 
 
An Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation reflecting the changes approved by shareholders was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware, and became effective, on May 7, 2010. Corresponding amendments to Group Inc.'s by-laws became effective concurrently with the effectiveness of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Copies of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and Amended and Restated By-Laws are attached as Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, respectively, to this Report on Form 8-K.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     The following exhibits are being filed as part of this Report on Form 8-K:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 3.1
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the Delaware General Corporation Law (the "Corporation"), DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
1. The name of the Corporation is The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. The date of filing of its original certificate of incorporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware was July 21, 1998.
2. This amended and restated certificate of incorporation (this "Restated Certificate of Incorporation") amends, restates and integrates the provisions of the certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and has been duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware by the favorable vote of the requisite number of holders of the outstanding stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon. The text of the certificate of incorporation is hereby amended and restated to read herein as set forth in full:
FIRST. The name of the Corporation is The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
SECOND. The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of its registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company.
THIRD. The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Corporation shall have all of the powers conferred on corporations by the Delaware General Corporation Law and other law, including the power and authority to make an initial charitable contribution (as defined in Section 170(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended) of up to an aggregate of $200,000,000 to one or more entities (the "Contribution"), and to make other charitable contributions from time to time thereafter, in such amounts, on such terms and conditions and for such purposes as may be lawful.
FOURTH. The total number of shares of all classes of stock which the Corporation shall have authority to issue is 4,350,000,000, of which 4,000,000,000 shares of the par value of $0.01 per share shall be a separate class designated as Common Stock, 200,000,000 shares of the par value of $0.01 per share shall be a separate class designated as Nonvoting Common Stock and 150,000,000 shares of the par value of $0.01 per share shall be a separate class designated as Preferred Stock.
 
Except as set forth in this Article FOURTH, the Common Stock and the Nonvoting Common Stock (together, the "Common Shares") shall have the same rights and privileges and shall rank equally, share ratably and be identical in all respects as to all matters.
(i) Voting. Except as may be provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or required by law, the Common Stock shall have voting rights in the election of directors and on all other matters presented to stockholders, with each holder of Common Stock being entitled to one vote for each share of Common Stock held of record by such holder on such matters. The Nonvoting Common Stock shall have no voting rights other than such rights as may be required by the first sentence of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted; provided that an amendment of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of Nonvoting Common Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) may be adopted by resolution adopted by the board of directors of the Corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class, and no vote of the holders of any shares of Nonvoting Common Stock, voting separately as a class, shall be required therefor.
(ii) Dividends. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, holders of Common Stock and holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be entitled to receive such dividends and distributions (whether payable in cash or otherwise) as may be declared on the Common Shares by the board of directors of the Corporation from time to time out of assets or funds of the Corporation legally available therefor; that the board of directors of the Corporation shall declare no dividend, and no dividend shall be paid, with respect to any outstanding share of Common Stock or Nonvoting Common Stock, whether in cash or otherwise (including any dividend in shares of Common Stock on or with respect to shares of Common Stock or any dividend in shares of Nonvoting Common Stock on or with respect to shares of Nonvoting Common Stock (collectively, "Stock Dividends")), unless, simultaneously, the same dividend is declared or paid with respect to each share of Common Stock and Nonvoting Common Stock. If a Stock Dividend is declared or paid with respect to one class, then a Stock Dividend shall likewise be declared or paid with respect to the other class and shall consist of shares of such other class in a number that bears the same relationship to the total number of shares of such other class, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the payment of such dividend, as the number of shares comprising the Stock Dividend with respect to the first referenced class bears to the total number of
provided
 
shares of such first referenced class, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the payment of such dividend. Stock Dividends with respect to Common Stock may be paid only with shares of Common Stock. Stock Dividends with respect to Nonvoting Common Stock may be paid only with shares of Nonvoting Common Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of any dividend in the form of capital stock of a subsidiary of the Corporation, the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to holders of Common Stock shall be identical to the capital stock of the subsidiary distributed to holders of Nonvoting Common Stock, except that the capital stock distributed to holders of Common Stock may have full or any other voting rights and the capital stock distributed to holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be non-voting to the same extent as the Nonvoting Common Stock is non-voting.
(iii) Subdivisions, Combinations and Mergers. If the Corporation shall in any manner split, subdivide or combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock or the outstanding shares of Nonvoting Common Stock, the outstanding shares of the other such class of the Common Shares shall likewise be split, subdivided or combined in the same manner proportionately and on the same basis per share. In the event of any merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation or similar form of corporate transaction involving the Corporation (whether or not the Corporation is the surviving entity), the holders of Common Stock and the holders of Nonvoting Common Stock shall be entitled to receive the same per share consideration, if any, except that any securities received by holders of Common Stock in consideration of such stock may have full or any other voting rights and any securities received by holders of Nonvoting Common Stock in consideration of such stock shall be non-voting to the same extent as the Nonvoting Common Stock is non-voting.
(iv) Rights on Liquidation. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, in the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation (whether voluntary or involuntary), the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders shall be distributed in equal amounts per share to the holders of Common Stock and the holders of Nonvoting Common Stock, as if such classes constituted a single class. For purposes of this paragraph, a merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Corporation (whether or not the Corporation is the surviving entity), or the sale, transfer or lease by the Corporation of all or substantially all its assets, shall not constitute or be deemed a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation.
 
Shares of Preferred Stock may be issued in one or more series from time to time as determined by the board of directors of the Corporation, and the board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to fix by resolution or resolutions the designations and the powers, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of each series of Preferred Stock, including the following:
(i) the distinctive serial designation of such series which shall distinguish it from other series;
(ii) the number of shares included in such series;
(iii) whether dividends shall be payable to the holders of the shares of such series and, if so, the basis on which such holders shall be entitled to receive dividends (which may include, without limitation, a right to receive such dividends or distributions as may be declared on the shares of such series by the board of directors of the Corporation, a right to receive such dividends or distributions, or any portion or multiple thereof, as may be declared on the Common Stock or any other class of stock or, in addition to or in lieu of any other right to receive dividends, a right to receive dividends at a particular rate or at a rate determined by a particular method, in which case such rate or method of determining such rate may be set forth), the form of such dividend, any conditions on which such dividends shall be payable and the date or dates, if any, on which such dividends shall be payable;
(iv) whether dividends on the shares of such series shall be cumulative and, if so, the date or dates or method of determining the date or dates from which dividends on the shares of such series shall be cumulative;
(v) the amount or amounts, if any, which shall be payable out of the assets of the Corporation to the holders of the shares of such series upon the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, and the relative rights of priority, if any, of payment of the shares of such series;
(vi) the price or prices (in cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof) at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which the shares of such series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation or at the option of the holder or holders thereof or upon the happening of a specified event or events;
(vii) the obligation, if any, of the Corporation to purchase or redeem shares of such series pursuant to a sinking fund or otherwise and the price or prices (in cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof) at which, the period or periods within which and the terms and conditions upon which the shares of such series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation;
 
(viii) whether or not the shares of such series shall be convertible or exchangeable, at any time or times at the option of the holder or holders thereof or at the option of the Corporation or upon the happening of a specified event or events, into shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the Corporation or any other securities or property of the Corporation or any other entity, and the price or prices (in cash, securities or other property or a combination thereof) or rate or rates of conversion or exchange and any adjustments applicable thereto; and
(ix) whether or not the holders of the shares of such series shall have voting rights, in addition to the voting rights provided by law, and if so the terms of such voting rights, which may provide, among other things and subject to the other provisions of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, that each share of such series shall carry one vote or more or less than one vote per share, that the holders of such series shall be entitled to vote on certain matters as a separate class (which for such purpose may be comprised solely of such series or of such series and one or more other series or classes of stock of the Corporation) and that all the shares of such series entitled to vote on a particular matter shall be deemed to be voted on such matter in the manner that a specified portion of the voting power of the shares of such series or separate class are voted on such matter.
For all purposes, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall include each certificate of designations (if any) setting forth the terms of a series of Preferred Stock.
Subject to the rights, if any, of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock set forth in a certificate of designations, an amendment of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to increase or decrease the number of authorized shares of any series of Preferred Stock (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) may be adopted by resolution adopted by the board of directors of the Corporation and approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and all other outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote thereon irrespective of the provisions of Section 242(b)(2) of the Delaware General Corporation Law or any similar provision hereafter enacted, with such outstanding shares of Common Stock and other stock considered for this purpose as a single class, and no vote of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class, shall be required therefor.
Except as otherwise required by law or provided in the certificate of designations for the relevant series, holders of Common Shares, as such, shall not be entitled to vote on any amendment of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation that alters or changes the powers, preferences, rights or other terms of one or more outstanding series of Preferred Stock if the holders of such affected series are entitled, either separately or together with the holders of one or more other series of Preferred Stock, to vote thereon as a separate class pursuant to this Restated Certificate of Incorporation or pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law as then in effect.
 
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Securities Issuance Committee"), the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 22, 2005, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, are set forth in Appendix A hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 28, 2005, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B, are set forth in Appendix B hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on October 28, 2005, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C, are set forth in Appendix C hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 23, 2006, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, are set forth in Appendix D hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the
 
Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 14, 2007, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, are set forth in Appendix E hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on May 14, 2007, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, are set forth in Appendix F hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the board of directors of the Corporation and authority delegated by the board of directors to the Securities Issuance Committee, the Securities Issuance Committee created a series of shares of Preferred Stock designated as 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G, by filing a certificate of designations of the Corporation with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on September 30, 2008, and the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G, are set forth in Appendix G hereto and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to create and issue options, warrants and other rights from time to time entitling the holders thereof to purchase securities or other property of the Corporation or any other entity, including any class or series of stock of the Corporation or any other entity and whether or not in connection with the issuance or sale of any securities or other property of the Corporation, for such consideration (if any), at such times and upon such other terms and conditions as may be determined or authorized by the board of directors of the Corporation and set forth in one or more agreements or instruments. Among other things and without limitation, such terms and conditions may provide for the following:
(i) adjusting the number or exercise price of such options, warrants or other rights or the amount or nature of the securities or other property receivable upon exercise thereof in the event of a subdivision or combination of any securities, or a recapitalization, of the Corporation, the acquisition by any person of beneficial ownership of securities representing more than a designated percentage of the voting power of any outstanding series, class or classes of securities, a change in ownership of the Corporation's securities or a merger, statutory share exchange, consolidation, reorganization, sale of assets or other occurrence relating to the Corporation or any of its securities, and restricting the ability of the Corporation to enter into an agreement with respect to any such transaction absent an assumption by another party or parties thereto of the obligations of the Corporation under such options, warrants or other rights;
(ii) restricting, precluding or limiting the exercise, transfer or receipt of such options, warrants or other rights by any person that becomes the beneficial owner of a designated percentage of the voting power of any outstanding series, class or classes of securities of the Corporation or any direct or indirect transferee of such a person, or invalidating or voiding such options, warrants or other rights held by any such person or transferee; and
(iii) permitting the board of directors (or certain directors specified or qualified by the terms of the governing instruments of such options, warrants or other rights) to redeem, terminate or exchange such options, warrants or other rights.
This paragraph shall not be construed in any way to limit the power of the board of directors of the Corporation to create and issue options, warrants or other rights.
FIFTH. [Reserved]
SIXTH. All corporate powers shall be exercised by the board of directors of the Corporation, except as otherwise specifically required by law or as otherwise provided in this Restated Certificate of Incorporation. Any meeting of stockholders may be postponed by action of the board of directors at any time in advance of such meeting.
 
The board of directors of the Corporation shall have the power to adopt such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meetings and management of the affairs of the Corporation as they may deem proper and the power to adjourn any meeting of stockholders without a vote of the stockholders, which powers may be delegated by the board of directors to the chairman of such meeting either in such rules and regulations or pursuant to the by-laws of the Corporation.
Special meetings of stockholders of the Corporation may be called at any time by, but only by, the board of directors of the Corporation or, as and to the extent required by the by-laws of the Corporation, by the Secretary of the Corporation upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than 25% of the voting power of all outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, such voting power to be calculated and determined in the manner specified, and with any limitations as may be set forth, in the Corporation's by-laws (the "Requisite Percent"). Each special meeting shall be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.
The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to adopt, amend or repeal by-laws of the Corporation. No adoption, amendment or repeal of a by-law by action of stockholders shall be effective unless approved by the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on such matter, with all shares of Common Stock of the Corporation and other stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter considered for this purpose as a single class; for purposes of this sentence votes cast "for" or "against" and "abstentions" with respect to such matter shall be counted as shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, while "broker nonvotes" (or other shares of stock of the Corporation similarly not entitled to vote) shall not be counted as shares entitled to vote on such matter. Any vote of stockholders required by this Article SIXTH shall be in addition to any other vote of stockholders that may be required by law, this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the by-laws of the Corporation, any agreement with a national securities exchange or otherwise.
SEVENTH. Elections of directors need not be by written ballot except and to the extent provided in the by-laws of the Corporation.
EIGHTH. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed only by resolution of the board of directors of the Corporation from time to time. Each director who is serving as a director on the date of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders after such date and until his or her successor has been duly elected and qualified, notwithstanding that such director may have been elected for a term that extended beyond the date of such next annual meeting of stockholders. At each annual meeting of stockholders after the date of this Restated Certificate of Incorporation, directors elected at such annual meeting shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors have been duly elected and qualified.
 
Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors or from any other cause (other than vacancies and newly created directorships which the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are expressly entitled by this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to fill) shall be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Any director appointed to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that the holders of any class or series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled, voting separately as a class, to elect any directors of the Corporation, then the number of directors that may be elected by such holders voting separately as a class shall be in addition to the number fixed pursuant to a resolution of the board of directors of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided in the terms of such class or series, (i) the terms of the directors elected by such holders voting separately as a class shall expire at the annual meeting of stockholders next succeeding their election and (ii) any director or directors elected by such holders voting separately as a class may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the voting power of all outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote separately as a class in an election of such directors.
NINTH. In taking any action, including action that may involve or relate to a change or potential change in the control of the Corporation, a director of the Corporation may consider, among other things, both the long-term and short-term interests of the Corporation and its stockholders and the effects that the Corporation's actions may have in the short term or long term upon any one or more of the following matters:
(i) the prospects for potential growth, development, productivity and profitability of the Corporation;
(ii) the Corporation's current employees;
(iii) the retired former partners of The Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. ("GS Group") and the Corporation's employees and other beneficiaries receiving or entitled to receive retirement, welfare or similar benefits from or pursuant to any plan sponsored, or agreement entered into, by the Corporation;
(iv) the Corporation's customers and creditors;
(v) the ability of the Corporation to provide, as a going concern, goods, services, employment opportunities and employment benefits and otherwise to contribute to the communities in which it does business; and
(vi) such other additional factors as a director may consider appropriate in such circumstances.
 
Nothing in this Article NINTH shall create any duty owed by any director of the Corporation to any person or entity to consider, or afford any particular weight to, any of the foregoing matters or to limit his or her consideration to the foregoing matters. No such employee, retired former partner of GS Group, former employee, beneficiary, customer, creditor or community or member thereof shall have any rights against any director of the Corporation or the Corporation under this Article NINTH.
TENTH. From and after the consummation of the initial public offering of the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation, no action of stockholders of the Corporation required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation may be taken without a meeting of stockholders, without prior notice and without a vote, and the power of stockholders of the Corporation to consent in writing to the taking of any action without a meeting is specifically denied. Notwithstanding this Article TENTH, the holders of any series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to take action by written consent to such extent, if any, as may be provided in the terms of such series.
ELEVENTH. [Reserved]
TWELFTH. A director of the Corporation shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director of the Corporation, except to the extent that such exemption from liability or limitation thereof is not permitted under the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended.
Pursuant to the Plan of Incorporation of GS Group, dated as of March 8, 1999, as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended (the "Plan"), the Corporation has the right, but not the obligation, to make special arrangements with any person who was a partner of GS Group participating in the Plan to ameliorate, in whole or in part, certain significantly disproportionate tax or other burdens. The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to cause the Corporation to make such arrangements (which may include special payments) as the board of directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem appropriate to effectuate the intent of the relevant provision of the Plan and the Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any such determination and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of the making of such arrangements.
Pursuant to the Plan, the Corporation has the right, but not the obligation, to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission the resale of certain securities of the Corporation by directors, employees and former directors and employees of the Corporation and its subsidiaries and affiliates and former partners and employees of GS Group and its subsidiaries and affiliates and to undertake various actions and to enter into agreements and arrangements in connection therewith (collectively, the "Registration Arrangements"). The board of directors of the Corporation is authorized to cause the Corporation to undertake such Registration Arrangements as the board of
 
directors of the Corporation may, in its sole discretion, deem appropriate and the Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any such determination and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of the undertaking of such Registration Arrangements.
The Corporation and each stockholder of the Corporation shall, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be deemed to have approved and ratified any decision by the board of directors of the Corporation to make the Contribution referred to in Article THIRD, including the amount thereof (up to the limit specified in Article THIRD) and to have waived any claim or objection on behalf of the Corporation or any such stockholder arising out of any such decision to make, or the making of, the Contribution.
The authorizations, approvals and ratifications contained in the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH shall not be construed to indicate that any other arrangements or contributions not specifically referred to in such paragraphs are, by reason of such omission, not within the power and authority of the board of directors of the Corporation or that the determination of the board of directors of the Corporation with respect thereto should be judged by any legal standard other than that which would have applied but for the inclusion of the second, third and fourth paragraphs of this Article TWELFTH.
No amendment, modification or repeal of this Article TWELFTH shall adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation that exists at the time of such amendment, modification or repeal.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed and attested by its duly authorized officer on this 7th day of May, 2010.
 
Appendix A
          , a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 6, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated April 18, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated April 6, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A" ("Series A"). Each share of Series A shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series A, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
Section 1. Designation
          . The authorized number of shares of Series A shall be 50,000. Shares of Series A that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series A.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series A:
Section 3. Definitions
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Calculation Agent" means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series A is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.
provided
     (e) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series A, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (f) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (g) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (h) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series A) that ranks junior to Series A either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "London Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     (j) "Moneyline Telerate Page" means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement page or pages on that service.
     (k) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series A) that ranks equally with Series A both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (l) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series A.
 
     (m) "Representative Amount" means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
     (n) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series A are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series A) that rank equally with Series A either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series A shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series A. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ("Dividend Payment Dates"), commencing on August 10, 2005; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series A on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series A shall not be cumulative; holders of Series A shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
Rate
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series A on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series A as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence
 
on and include the date of original issue of the Series A, that, for any share of Series A issued after such original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series A in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
provided
-
          The dividend rate on the Series A, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 3.75%. LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
          If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.
          The Calculation Agent's determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation's principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
 
          Holders of Series A shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series A as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series A remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series A have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
Priority of Dividends
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series A and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series A and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series A and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series A shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series A shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
 
stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series A as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the "Series A Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series A and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series A as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series A and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series A and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series A and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
Partial Payment
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series A, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series A receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series A may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to April 25, 2010. On or after April 25, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series A shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
Optional Redemption
 
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
          (b) . The Series A will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series A will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series A.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series A shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series A designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series A or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series A are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series A at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series A to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series A at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series A shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series A, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series A for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series A in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series A shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series A, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and
provided
 
voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, taken as a whole.
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series A of any election to qualify the Series A for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series A into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series A pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series A shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series A shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series A shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series A, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors.
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
          In the event that the holders of the Series A, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock
 
Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series A or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series A or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
          When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series A for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series A to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series A and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
          Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series A and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series A are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the
Other Voting Rights
2
3
 
shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series A with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series A
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series A, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series A remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series A or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series A with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series A. In addition, any conversion of the Series A pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series A.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series A and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series A and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
 
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series A, so long as such action does not adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series A, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series A:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series A that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series A shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series A shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series A (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series A is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series A and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series A are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
 
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series A may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series A as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series A shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
Section 10. Notices
          . No share of Series A shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The shares of Series A shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights
 
Appendix B
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated October 25, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B" ("Series B"). Each share of Series B shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series B, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
Section 1. Designation
          . The authorized number of shares of Series B shall be 50,000. Shares of Series B that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series B.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series B:
Section 3. Definitions
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series B, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (e) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (f) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (g) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series B) that ranks junior to Series B either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (h) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series B) that ranks equally with Series B both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series B.
     (j) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series B are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series B) that rank equally with Series B either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum of 6.20% applied to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series B. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but
Rate
 
only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ("Dividend Payment Dates"), commencing on February 10, 2006; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series B on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends on Series B shall not be cumulative; holders of Series B shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series B on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series B as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of original issue of the Series B, that, for any share of Series B issued after such original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series B in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
provided
-
          Holders of Series B shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series B as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series B remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed
Priority of Dividends
 
Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series B have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series B and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series B and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series B and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series B shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series B shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series B as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the "Series B Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series B and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series B as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series B and to the holders of all such other stock shall
Partial Payment
 
be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series B and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series B and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series B, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series B receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series B may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October 31, 2010. On or after October 31, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series B at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series B shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
Optional Redemption
          (b) . The Series B will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series B will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series B.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series B shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the
Notice of Redemption
 
books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series B designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series B. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series B or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series B are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series B at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series B to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series B at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series B shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series B, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined
 
under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series B for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series B in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series B shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series B, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, taken as a whole.
provided
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
 
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series B of any election to qualify the Series B for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series B into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series B pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series B shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series B shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series B shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series B, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
provided further
          In the event that the holders of the Series B, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series B or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series B or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of
 
the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
          When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series B for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series B to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series B and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
          Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series B and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series B are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Other Voting Rights
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series B with respect to either or both the payment of
Authorization of Senior Stock
 
dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series B
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series B, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series B remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series B or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series B with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series B. In addition, any conversion of the Series B pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series B.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series B and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series B and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series B, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series B, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series B:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
 
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series B that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series B shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series B shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series B (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series B is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series B and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series B are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series B may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series B as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series B shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
Section 10. Notices
          . No share of Series B shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The shares of Series B shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights
 
Appendix C
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated October 25, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 25,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          Designation. The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C" ("Series C"). Each share of Series C shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series C, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
Section 1.
          Number of Shares. The authorized number of shares of Series C shall be 25,000. Shares of Series C that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series C.
Section 2.
          Definitions. As used herein with respect to Series C:
Section 3.
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Calculation Agent" means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series C is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.
provided
     (e) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series C, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (f) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (g) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (h) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series C) that ranks junior to Series C either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "London Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     (j) "Moneyline Telerate Page" means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement page or pages on that service.
     (k) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series C) that ranks equally with Series C both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (l) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series C.
 
     (m) "Representative Amount" means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
     (n) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series C are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series C) that rank equally with Series C either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series C shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series C. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ("Dividend Payment Dates"), commencing on February 10, 2006; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series C on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series C shall not be cumulative; holders of Series C shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
Rate
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series C on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series C as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence
 
on and include the date of original issue of the Series C, that, for any share of Series C issued after such original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series C in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
provided
-
          The dividend rate on the Series C, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.75% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 4.00%. LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
          If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.
          The Calculation Agent's determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation's principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
 
          Holders of Series C shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series C as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series C remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series C have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
Priority of Dividends
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series C and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series C and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series C and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series C shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series C shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
 
stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series C as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the "Series C Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series C and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series C as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series C and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series C and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series C and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
Partial Payment
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series C, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series C receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series C may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to October 31, 2010. On or after October 31, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein below) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series C shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
Optional Redemption
 
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
          (b) . The Series C will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series C will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series C.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series C shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series C designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series C or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series C are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series C at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series C to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series C at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series C shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series C, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series C for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series C in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series C shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series C, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and
provided
 
voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, taken as a whole.
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series C of any election to qualify the Series C for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series C into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series C pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series C shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series C shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series C shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series C, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
provided further
 
          In the event that the holders of the Series C, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series C or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series C or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
          When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series C for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series C to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series C and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
          Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series C and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
 
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series C are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Other Voting Rights
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series C with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series C, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series C
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series C, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series C remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series C or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series C with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series C. In addition, any conversion of the Series C pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series C.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series C and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series C and such
 
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series C, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series C, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series C:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series C that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series C shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series C shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series C (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series C is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series C and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series C are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series C may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series C as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series C shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this
Section 10. Notices
 
Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
          . No share of Series C shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The shares of Series C shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights
 
Appendix D
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated May 16, 2005, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 60,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D" ("Series D"). Each share of Series D shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series D, except as to the respective dates from which dividends thereon shall accrue, to the extent such dates may differ as permitted pursuant to Section 4(a) below.
Section 1. Designation
          . The authorized number of shares of Series D shall be 60,000. Shares of Series D that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series D.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series D:
Section 3. Definitions
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Calculation Agent" means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series D is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.
provided
     (e) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series D, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (f) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (g) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (h) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series D) that ranks junior to Series D either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "London Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     (j) "Moneyline Telerate Page" means the display on Moneyline Telerate, Inc., or any successor service, on the page or pages specified in Section 4 below or any replacement page or pages on that service.
     (k) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series D) that ranks equally with Series D both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (l) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series D.
 
     (m) "Representative Amount" means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
     (n) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series D are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series D) that rank equally with Series D either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series D shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied to the liquidation preference amount of $25,000 per share of Series D. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on February 10, May 10, August 10 and November 10 ("Dividend Payment Dates"), commencing on August 10, 2006; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series D on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day, unless such immediately succeeding Business Day falls in the next calendar month, in which case such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any such dividend shall instead be payable on) the immediately preceding Business Day. Dividends on Series D shall not be cumulative; holders of Series D shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
Rate
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series D on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series D as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence
 
on and include the date of original issue of the Series D, that, for any share of Series D issued after such original issue date, the initial Dividend Period for such shares may commence on and include such other date as the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) shall determine and publicly disclose) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series D in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
provided
-
          The dividend rate on the Series D, for each Dividend Period, shall be a rate per annum equal to the greater of (1) 0.67% above LIBOR (as defined below) for such Dividend Period and (2) 4.00%. LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
          If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750 (or any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.
          The Calculation Agent's determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation's principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
 
          Holders of Series D shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series D as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series D remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series D have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
Priority of Dividends
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series D and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series D and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series D and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series D shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series D shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
 
stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series D as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $25,000 per share (the "Series D Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series D and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series D as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series D and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series D and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
Partial Payment
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series D, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series D receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series D may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to May 24, 2011. On or after May 24, 2011, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series D at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $25,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided hereinbelow) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series D shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the
Optional Redemption
 
certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
          (b) . The Series D will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series D will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series D.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series D shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series D designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series D. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series D are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series D at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series D to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series D at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series D shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series D, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series D for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series D in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series D shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series D, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and
provided
 
voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series D, taken as a whole.
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series D of any election to qualify the Series D for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series D into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series D pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series D shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series D shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series D shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series D, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
provided further
 
          In the event that the holders of the Series D, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series D or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series D or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
     When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series D for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series D to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series D and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
     Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
 
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series D are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series D and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Other Voting Rights
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series D with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series D, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series D
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series D, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series D remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series D immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series D or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series D with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series D. In addition, any conversion of the Series D pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series D.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series D and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series D and such
 
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series D, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series D, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series D:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series D that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series D shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series D shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series D (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series D is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series D and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series D are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series D may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series D as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series D shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this
Section 10. Notices
 
Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
          . No share of Series D shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The shares of Series D shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights
 
Appendix E
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated May 14, 2007, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 17,500.1 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E" ("Series E"). Each share of Series E shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series E.
Section 1. Designation
          . The authorized number of shares of Series E shall be 17,500.1. Shares of Series E that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series E.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series E:
Section 3. Definitions
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Calculation Agent" means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series E is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.
provided
     (e) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series E, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (f) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (g) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (h) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series E) that ranks junior to Series E either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "London Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     (j) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series E) that ranks equally with Series E both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (k) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series E.
     (l) "Representative Amount" means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
 
     (m) "Reuters Screen LIBOR01" means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such other page as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).
     (n) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series E are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series E) that rank equally with Series E either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series E shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied to the liquidation preference amount of $100,000 per share of Series E. Such dividends shall be payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), (a) if the shares of Series E are issued prior to June 1, 2012 (or if such date is not a Business Day, the next Business Day), on June 1 and December 1 of each year until June 1, 2012, and (b) thereafter, on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year (each a "Dividend Payment Date"); that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series E on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. If a Dividend Payment Date prior to June 1, 2012 is not a Business Day, the applicable dividend shall be paid on the first Business Day following that day without adjustment. Dividends on Series E shall not be cumulative; holders of Series E shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
Rate
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series E on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series E as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
 
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of original issue of the Series E) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series E in respect of a Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent (i) if shares of Series E are issued prior to June 1, 2012, on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve-30 day months until the Dividend Payment Date in June 2012 and (ii) thereafter, on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
-
          The dividend rate on the Series E, for each Dividend Period, shall be (a) if the shares of Series E are issued prior to June 1, 2012, a rate per annum equal to 5.793% until the Dividend Payment date in June 2012, and (b) thereafter, a rate per annum that will reset quarterly and shall be equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR for such Dividend Period plus 0.7675% and (ii) 4.000%. Three-month LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
          If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01(or any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
          If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
          If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.
 
          The Calculation Agent's determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation's principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
          Holders of Series E shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series E as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series E remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series E have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
Priority of Dividends
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series E and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series E and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series E and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series E shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
 
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series E shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series E as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $100,000 per share (the "Series E Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series E and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series E as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series E and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series E and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series E and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
Partial Payment
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series E, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series E receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series E may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to the later of June 1, 2012 and the date of original issue of Series E. On or after that date, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part
Optional Redemption
 
from time to time, the shares of Series E at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series E shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
          (b) . The Series E will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series E will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series E.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series E shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series E designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series E. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series E or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series E are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series E at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series E to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series E at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series E shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series E, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series E for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series E in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series E shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series E, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions
 
thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, taken as a whole.
provided
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series E of any election to qualify the Series E for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series E into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series E pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series E shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series E shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series E shall not have been declared and paid for Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, equivalent to at least eighteen months (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series E, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
 
the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).
provided further
          In the event that the holders of the Series E, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series E or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series E or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
          When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series E for Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, equivalent to at least one year after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series E to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series E and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
          Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at
 
such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series E are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Other Voting Rights
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series E with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series E, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series E
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series E, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series E remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series E or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series E with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will
provided
however
 
not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series E. In addition, any conversion of the Series E pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series E.
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series E and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series E and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series E, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series E, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series E:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series E that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series E shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series E shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series E (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series E is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series E and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series E are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series E may deem and treat
Section 9. Record Holders
 
the record holder of any share of Series E as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series E shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
Section 10. Notices
          . No share of Series E shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The shares of Series E shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights
 
Appendix F
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY:
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "Committee") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the "Board of Directors"), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, by unanimous written consent dated May 14, 2007, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 5,000.1 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F".
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F" ("Series F"). Each share of Series F shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F.
Section 1. Designation
          . The authorized number of shares of Series F shall be 5,000.1. Shares of Series F that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall be cancelled and shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Series F.
Section 2. Number of Shares
          . As used herein with respect to Series F:
Section 3. Definitions
     (a) "Board of Directors" means the board of directors of the Corporation.
 
     (b) "ByLaws" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
     (c) "Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
     (d) "Calculation Agent" means, at any time, the person or entity appointed by the Corporation and serving as such agent at such time. The Corporation may terminate any such appointment and may appoint a successor agent at any time and from time to time, that the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that there is, at all relevant times when the Series F is outstanding, a person or entity appointed and serving as such agent. The Calculation Agent may be a person or entity affiliated with the Corporation.
provided
     (e) "Certificate of Designations" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series F, as it may be amended from time to time.
     (f) "Certification of Incorporation" shall mean the restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
     (g) "Common Stock" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
     (h) "Junior Stock" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series F) that ranks junior to Series F either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (i) "London Business Day" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is a day on which dealings in U.S. dollars are transacted in the London interbank market.
     (j) "Parity Stock" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series F) that ranks equally with Series F both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
     (k) "Preferred Stock" means any and all series of Preferred Stock, having a par value of $0.01 per share, of the Corporation, including the Series F.
     (l) "Representative Amount" means, at any time, an amount that, in the Calculation Agent's judgment, is representative of a single transaction in the relevant market at the relevant time.
 
     (m) "Reuters Screen LIBOR01" means the display designated on the Reuters 3000 Xtra (or such other page as may replace that page on that service or such other service as may be nominated by the British Bankers' Association for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. Dollar deposits).
     (n) "Voting Preferred Stock" means, with regard to any election or removal of a Preferred Stock Director (as defined in Section 8(b) below) or any other matter as to which the holders of Series F are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series F) that rank equally with Series F either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series F shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate determined as set forth below in this Section (4) applied to the liquidation preference amount of $100,000 per share of Series F. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1 of each year (each a "Dividend Payment Date"); that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series F on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. If a Dividend Payment Date is not a Business Day, the applicable dividend shall be paid on the first Business Day following that day. Dividends on Series F shall not be cumulative; holders of Series F shall not be entitled to receive any dividends not declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) and no interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend not so declared.
Rate
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series F on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series F as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a "Dividend Record Date"). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
          Each dividend period (a "Dividend Period") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the date of original issue of the Series F) and shall end on and include the
 
calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable on the Series F in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed by the Calculation Agent on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears i.e., on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
-
     The dividend rate on the Series F, for each Dividend Period, shall be (a) if the shares of Series F are issued prior to September 1, 2012, a rate per annum equal to three-month LIBOR plus 0.77% until the Dividend Payment date in September 2012, and (b) thereafter, a rate per annum that will reset quarterly and shall be equal to the greater of (i) three-month LIBOR for such Dividend Period plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.000%. Three-month LIBOR, with respect to any Dividend Period, means the offered rate expressed as a percentage per annum for three-month deposits in U.S. dollars on the first day of such Dividend Period, as that rate appears on Reuters Screen LIBOR01 (or any successor or replacement page) as of 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period.
     If the rate described in the preceding paragraph does not appear on Reuters Screen LIBOR01(or any successor or replacement page), LIBOR shall be determined on the basis of the rates, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, at which deposits of the following kind are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in that market selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month deposits in U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount. The Calculation Agent shall request the principal London office of each of these banks to provide a quotation of its rate at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time. If at least two quotations are provided, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of such quotations.
     If fewer than two quotations are provided as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be the arithmetic mean of the rates for loans of the following kind to leading European banks quoted, at approximately 11:00 A.M. New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period, by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent: three-month loans of U.S. dollars, beginning on the first day of such Dividend Period, and in a Representative Amount.
     If fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent are quoting as described in the preceding paragraph, LIBOR for such Dividend Period shall be LIBOR in effect for the prior Dividend Period.
     The Calculation Agent's determination of any dividend rate, and its calculation of the amount of dividends for any Dividend Period, will be maintained on file at the Corporation's principal offices and will be available to any stockholder upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error.
 
     Holders of Series F shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series F as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
     (b) . So long as any share of Series F remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock or other Junior Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless the full dividends for the latest completed Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series F have been declared and paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making transactions in Junior Stock in the ordinary course of business.
Priority of Dividends
     When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period) in full upon the Series F and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series F and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of parity stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued but unpaid dividends per share on the Series F and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
     Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series F shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
     .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
     (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series F shall be entitled to receive, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
 
stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series F as to such distribution, in full an amount equal to $100,000 per share (the "Series F Liquidation Amount"), together with an amount equal to all dividends (if any) that have been declared but not paid prior to the date of payment of such distribution (but without any amount in respect of dividends that have not been declared prior to such payment date).
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series F and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series F as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series F and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid pro rata in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series F and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "Liquidation Preference" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock other than Series F and on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any unpaid, accrued, cumulative dividends, whether or not declared, as applicable).
Partial Payment
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series F, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series F receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Series F may not be redeemed by the Corporation prior to the later of September 1, 2012 and the date of original issue of Series F. On or after that date, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series F at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to $100,000 per share, together (except as otherwise provided herein) with an amount equal to any dividends that have been declared but not paid prior to the redemption date (but with no amount in respect of any dividends that have not been declared prior to such date). The redemption price for any shares of Series F shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares
Optional Redemption
 
against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above.
          (b) . The Series F will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series F will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series F.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series F. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series F or any depositary shares representing interests in the Series F are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series F at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each such notice given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series F to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
Notice of Redemption
          (d) . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series F at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either pro rata or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series F shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the pro rata benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed
Effectiveness of Redemption
 
outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
          . If both (i) and (ii) below occur:
Section 7. Conversion Upon Regulatory Changes
     (i) after the date of the issuance of the Series F, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together, "Regulations") relating to its capital adequacy, which Regulation (x) modifies the existing requirements for treatment as Allowable Capital (as defined under the Securities and Exchange Commission rules relating to consolidated supervised entities as in effect from time to time), (y) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as "Tier 1" or its equivalent pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or other body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation (or any of its subsidiaries or consolidated affiliates) and implementing the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or other body, or any other applicable regime based on capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or its successor, or (z) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) is substantially equivalent to such "Tier 1" capital (such capital described in either (y) or (z) above is referred to below as "Tier 1 Capital Equivalent"), and
     (ii) the Corporation affirmatively elects to qualify the Series F for treatment as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of the Series F in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) under such Regulations,
then, upon such affirmative election, the Series F shall be convertible at the Corporation's option into a new series of Preferred Stock having terms and provisions substantially identical to those of the Series F, except that such new series may have such additional or modified rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, as are necessary in the judgment of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) (after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing) to comply with the Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions (as defined below), that the Corporation will not cause any such conversion unless the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) determines that the rights, preferences, privileges and
provided
 
voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such new series of Preferred Stock, taken as a whole, are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, taken as a whole.
          As used above, the term "Required Unrestricted Capital Provisions" means such terms and provisions as are, in the judgment of the Corporation (after consultation with counsel of recognized standing), required for preferred stock to be treated as Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable, without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such preferred stock in Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent, as applicable (other than any limitation the Corporation elects to accept and any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent) pursuant to the applicable Regulations.
          The Corporation shall provide notice to the holders of Series F of any election to qualify the Series F for Allowable Capital or Tier 1 Capital Equivalent treatment and of any determination to convert the Series F into a new series of Preferred Stock pursuant to the terms of this Section 7, promptly upon the effectiveness of any such election or determination. A copy of such notice and of the relevant Regulations shall be maintained on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to any stockholder of the Corporation. Any conversion of the Series F pursuant to this Section 7 shall be effected pursuant to such procedures as the Corporation may determine and publicly disclose.
          Except as specified in this Section 7, holders of Series F shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series F shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from to time required by law.
General
          (b) . If and whenever dividends on any shares of Series F shall not have been declared and paid for at least six Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive (a "Nonpayment Event"), the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of Series F, together with the holders of any outstanding shares of Voting Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the two additional directors (the "Preferred Stock Directors"), that it shall be a qualification for election for any such Preferred Stock Director that the election of such director shall not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirement of the New York Stock Exchange (or any other securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded) that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors and that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two Preferred Stock Directors (including, for purposes of this limitation, all directors that the holders of any series of Voting Preferred Stock are entitled to elect pursuant to like voting rights).
Right To Elect Two Directors Upon Nonpayment Events
provided
provided further
 
          In the event that the holders of the Series F, and such other holders of Voting Preferred Stock, shall be entitled to vote for the election of the Preferred Stock Directors following a Nonpayment Event, such directors shall be initially elected following such Nonpayment Event only at a special meeting called at the request of the holders of record of at least 20% of the Series F or of any other series of Voting Preferred Stock then outstanding (unless such request for a special meeting is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation, in which event such election shall be held only at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders of the Corporation. Such request to call a special meeting for the initial election of the Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event shall be made by written notice, signed by the requisite holders of Series F or Voting Preferred Stock, and delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation in such manner as provided for in Section 10 below, or as may otherwise be required by law.
          When dividends have been paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside) in full on the Series F for at least four Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) after a Nonpayment Event, then the right of the holders of Series F to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall cease (but subject always to revesting of such voting rights in the case of any future Nonpayment Event), and, if and when any rights of holders of Series F and Voting Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Stock Directors shall have ceased, the terms of office of all the Preferred Stock Directors shall forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall automatically be reduced accordingly.
          Any Preferred Stock Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F and Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). So long as a Nonpayment Event shall continue, any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Stock Director (other than prior to the initial election of Preferred Stock Directors after a Nonpayment Event) may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Stock Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by a vote of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series F and all Voting Preferred Stock, when they have the voting rights described above (voting together as a single class). Any such vote of stockholders to remove, or to fill a vacancy in the office of, a Preferred Stock Director may be taken only at a special meeting of such stockholders, called as provided above for an initial election of Preferred Stock Director after a Nonpayment Event (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders). The Preferred Stock Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter that shall come before the Board of Directors for a vote. Each Preferred Stock Director elected at any special meeting of stockholders or by written consent of the other Preferred Stock Director shall hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders if such office shall not have previously terminated as above provided.
 
          (c) . So long as any shares of Series F are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Other Voting Rights
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series F with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series F, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series F
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series F, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series F remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized or issued Series F or authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series F with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series F. In addition, any conversion of the Series F pursuant to Section 7 above shall not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers of the Series F.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 7(c) would adversely affect the Series F and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series F and such
 
series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (d) . Without the consent of the holders of the Series F, so long as such action does not adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series F, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Series F:
Changes for Clarification
          (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in this Certificate of Designations that may be defective or inconsistent; or
          (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Series F that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations.
          (e) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series F shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b), (c) or (d) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series F shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (f) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series F (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, applicable law and any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series F is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series F and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series F are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amounts of the shares voted or covered by the consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series F may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series F as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series F shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this
Section 10. Notices
 
Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law.
          . No share of Series F shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          The shares of Series F shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 12. Other Rights.
 
Appendix G
          ., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the ""), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, :
THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC
Corporation
does hereby certify
          The Securities Issuance Committee (the "") of the board of directors of the Corporation (the ""), in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, at a meeting duly called and held on September 29, 2008, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as "".
Committee
Board of Directors
10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G
          , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated September 16, 2005 and September 29, 2006, the provisions of the restated certificate of incorporation and the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows:
RESOLVED
          . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is "10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G" (""). Each share of Series G shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series G.
Section 1. Designation
Series G
          . The authorized number of shares of Series G shall be 50,000. Shares of Series G that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, or converted into another series of Preferred Stock, shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (that any such cancelled shares of Series G may be reissued only as shares of any series other than Series G).
Section 2. Number of Shares
provided
          . As used herein with respect to Series G:
Section 3. Definitions
 
     (a) "" means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.
Bylaws
     (b) "" means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close.
Business Day
     (c) "" means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series G, as it may be amended from time to time.
Certificate of Designations
     (d) "" shall mean the restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations.
Certification of Incorporation
     (e) "" means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation.
Common Stock
     (f) "" means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series G) that ranks junior to Series G either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Junior Stock
     (g) "" means October 1, 2008.
Original Issue Date
     (h) "" means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series G) that ranks equally with Series G both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A; (ii) 6.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series B; (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series C; (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D; (v) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; and (vi) Perpetual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F.
Parity Stock
     (i) "" means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series G.
Preferred Stock
     (j) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series G are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
Voting Parity Stock
     (k) "" means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series G are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this
Voting Preferred Stock
 
Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series G) that rank equally with Series G either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter.
          .
Section 4. Dividends
          (a) . Holders of Series G shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series G, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 10% on (i) the amount of $100,000 per share of Series G and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends on such share of Series G, if any (giving effect to (A) any dividends paid through the Dividend Payment Date (as defined below) that begins such Dividend Period (other than the initial Dividend Period) and (B) any dividends (including dividends thereon at a per annum rate of 10% to the date of payment) paid during such Dividend Period). Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each Dividend Payment Date (i.e., no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) on each November 10, February 10, May 10 and August 10 (each, a ""), commencing on November 10, 2008; that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series G on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends payable on the Series G in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on the Series G on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month.
Rate
Dividend Payment Date
provided
          Dividends that are payable on Series G on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series G as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date (as originally scheduled) or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a ""). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day.
Dividend Record Date
          Each dividend period (a "") shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series G) and shall end on and include the
Dividend Period
 
calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period.
          Holders of Series G shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series G as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations).
          (b) . So long as any share of Series G remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock or of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock (with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount) or Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Series G have been declared and paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Series G on the applicable record date). The foregoing provision shall not restrict the ability of Goldman, Sachs & Co., or any other affiliate of the Corporation, to engage in any market-making or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business or, in connection with the issuance of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, to engage in ordinary sale and repurchase transactions to facilitate the distribution of such Junior Stock or Parity Stock.
Priority of Dividends
          When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon the Series G and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series G and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the Series G (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend
 
payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other.
          Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series G shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends.
          .
Section 5. Liquidation Rights
          (a) . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series G shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series G, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series G as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $100,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment.
Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation
          (b) . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series G and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series G as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series G and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series G and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the "" of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock, including the Series G, on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, as applicable), that the Liquidation Preference for any share of Series G shall be determined in accordance with Section 5(a) above.
Partial Payment
pro rata
Liquidation Preference
provided
          (c) . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series G, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences.
Residual Distributions
 
          (d) . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series G receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.
Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation
          .
Section 6. Redemption
          (a) . The Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) $110,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the redemption date, that the minimum number of shares of Series G redeemable at any time is the lesser of (i) 10,000 shares of Series G and (ii) the number of shares of Series G outstanding. The redemption price for any shares of Series G shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. An exchange of Series G for Spinco Preferred (as defined in the Securities Purchase Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2008, between the Corporation and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the "")) pursuant to Section 4.7 of the SPA, shall not be deemed to be a redemption for purposes of this Section 6.
Optional Redemption
provided
SPA
          (b) . The Series G will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series G will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series G.
No Sinking Fund
          (c) . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series G shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series G designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series G. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series G are issued in book-entry form through The
Notice of Redemption
 
Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series G at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series G to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price.
          (d) . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series G shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof.
Partial Redemption
pro rata
          (e) . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $50 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares.
Effectiveness of Redemption
pro rata
          . Holders of Series G shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities.
Section 7. Conversion
          .
Section 8. Voting Rights
          (a) . The holders of Series G shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law.
General
          (b) . So long as any shares of Series G are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders
Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
 
required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66/% of the shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
2
3
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series G with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series G, taken as a whole; or
Amendment of Series G
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series G, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series G immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(b), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series G.
provided
however
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series G and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series G and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter
 
shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8(b) would adversely affect the Series G but would not similarly adversely affect all other series of Voting Parity Stock, then only the Series G and each other series of Voting Parity Stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock).
          (c) . In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, so long as at least 10,000 shares of Series G are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 50.1% of the shares of Series G at the time outstanding, voting in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating:
Series G Voting Rights as to Particular Matters
     (i) . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or the issuance of any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, in each case, ranking senior to the Series G with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation;
Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock
     (ii) . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to affect or change the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series G so as not to be substantially similar to those in effect immediately prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal; or
Amendment of Series G
     (iii) . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series G, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series G remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof as are substantially similar to the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions of the Series G immediately prior to such consummation;
Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations
 
, , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series G with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series G.
provided
however
          (d) . No vote or consent of the holders of Series G shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series G (or, in the case of Section 8(c), more than 40,000 shares of Series G) shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above.
Changes after Provision for Redemption
          (e) . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series G (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or the Committee (or another duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series G is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series G and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series G are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent (that the specified liquidation amount for any share of Series G shall be the Liquidation Preference for such share) as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent.
Procedures for Voting and Consents
provided
          . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series G may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series G as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
Section 9. Record Holders
          . All notices or communications in respect of Series G shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series G are issued in book-entry form through
Section 10. Notices
 
The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Series G in any manner permitted by such facility.
          . No share of Series G shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted.
Section 11. No Preemptive Rights
          . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation.
Section 12. Replacement Certificates
          . The shares of Series G shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law.
Section 13. Other Rights

Exhibit 3.2
As Amended and Restated as of May 7, 2010
     Section 1.1. . An annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the election of directors at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be designated by the Board of Directors from time to time. Any other business properly brought before the meeting may be transacted at the annual meeting.
Annual Meetings
     Section 1.2. . (a) Special meetings of stockholders may be called at any time by, and only by, (i) the Board of Directors or (ii) solely to the extent required by Section 1.2(b), the Secretary of the Corporation. Each special meeting shall be held at such date, time and place either within or without the State of Delaware as may be stated in the notice of the meeting.
Special Meetings
     (b) A special meeting of the stockholders shall be called by the Secretary upon the written request of the holders of record of not less than twenty-five percent of the voting power of all outstanding shares of common stock of the Corporation (the "Requisite Percent"), subject to the following:
     (1) In order for a special meeting upon stockholder request (a "Stockholder Requested Special Meeting") to be called by the Secretary, one or more written requests for a special meeting (each, a "Special Meeting Request," and collectively, the "Special Meeting Requests") stating the purpose of the special meeting and the matters proposed to be acted upon thereat must be signed and dated by the Requisite Percent of record holders of common stock of the Corporation (or their duly authorized agents), must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation and must set forth:
     (i) in the case of any director nominations proposed to be presented at such Stockholder Requested Special Meeting, the information required by the third paragraph of Section 1.11(b);
     (ii) in the case of any matter (other than a director nomination) proposed to be conducted at such Stockholder Requested Special
 
Meeting, the information required by the fourth paragraph of Section 1.11(b); and
     (iii) an agreement by the requesting stockholder(s) to notify the Corporation immediately in the case of any disposition prior to the record date for the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting of shares of common stock of the Corporation owned of record and an acknowledgement that any such disposition shall be deemed a revocation of such Special Meeting Request to the extent of such disposition, such that the number of shares disposed of shall not be included in determining whether the Requisite Percent has been reached.
     The Corporation will provide the requesting stockholder(s) with notice of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to vote at the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting. Each requesting stockholder is required to update the notice delivered pursuant to this Section not later than ten business days after such record date to provide any material changes in the foregoing information as of such record date.
     In determining whether a special meeting of stockholders has been requested by the record holders of shares representing in the aggregate at least the Requisite Percent, multiple Special Meeting Requests delivered to the Secretary will be considered together only if each such Special Meeting Request (x) identifies substantially the same purpose or purposes of the special meeting and substantially the same matters proposed to be acted on at the special meeting (in each case as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors), and (y) has been dated and delivered to the Secretary within sixty days of the earliest dated of such Special Meeting Requests. If the record holder is not the signatory to the Special Meeting Request, such Special Meeting Request will not be valid unless documentary evidence is supplied to the Secretary at the time of delivery of such Special Meeting Request (or within ten business days thereafter) of such signatory's authority to execute the Special Meeting Request on behalf of the record holder. Any requesting stockholder may revoke his, her or its Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation; provided, however, that if following such revocation (or any deemed revocation pursuant to clause (iii) above), the unrevoked valid Special Meeting Requests represent in the aggregate less than the Requisite Percent, there shall be no requirement to hold a special meeting. The first date on which unrevoked valid Special Meeting Requests constituting not less than the Requisite Percent shall have been delivered to the Corporation is referred to herein as the "Request Receipt Date".
     (2) A Special Meeting Request shall not be valid if:
     (i) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law;
     (ii) the Request Receipt Date is during the period commencing ninety days prior to the first anniversary of the date of the immediately
 
preceding annual meeting and ending on the date of the next annual meeting;
     (iii) the purpose specified in the Special Meeting Request is not the election of directors and an identical or substantially similar item (as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors, a "Similar Item") was presented at any meeting of stockholders held within the twelve months prior to the Request Receipt Date; or
     (iv) a Similar Item is included in the Corporation's notice as an item of business to be brought before a stockholder meeting that has been called but not yet held or that is called for a date within ninety days of the Request Receipt Date.
     (3) A Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be held at such date and time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors; provided, however, that the Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be called for a date not more than ninety days after the Request Receipt Date.
     (4) Business transacted at any Stockholder Requested Special Meeting shall be limited to (i) the purpose(s) stated in the valid Special Meeting Request(s) received from the Requisite Percent of record holders and (ii) any additional matters that the Board of Directors determines to include in the Corporation's notice of the meeting. If none of the stockholders who submitted the Special Meeting Request appears or sends a qualified representative to present the matters to be presented for consideration that were specified in the Stockholder Meeting Request, the Corporation need not present such matters for a vote at such meeting, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such matter may have been received by the Corporation.
     Section 1.3. . Whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting, a written notice of the meeting shall be given which shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called. Unless otherwise required by law, the written notice of any meeting shall be given not less than ten nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. Such notice shall be deemed to be given (i) if mailed, when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at such stockholder's address as it appears on the records of the Corporation, (ii) if sent by electronic mail, when delivered to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has consented to receive such notice; and (iii) if posted on an electronic network together with a separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later to occur of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice of such posting. Notice shall be deemed to have been given to all stockholders of record who share an address if notice is given in accordance with the "householding" rules set forth in Rule 14a-3(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act") and Section 233 of the Delaware General Corporation Law.
Notice of Meetings
 
     Section 1.4. . Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, may be adjourned from time to time, to reconvene at the same or some other place, and notice need not be given of any such adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than thirty days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Adjournments
     Section 1.5. . At each meeting of stockholders, except where otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock entitled to vote on a matter at the meeting, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum. For purposes of the foregoing, where a separate vote by class or classes is required for any matter, the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or classes, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum to take action with respect to that vote on that matter. Two or more classes or series of stock shall be considered a single class if the holders thereof are entitled to vote together as a single class at the meeting. In the absence of a quorum of the holders of any class of stock entitled to vote on a matter, the meeting of such class may be adjourned from time to time in the manner provided by Sections 1.4 and 1.6 of these by-laws until a quorum of such class shall be so present or represented. Shares of its own capital stock belonging on the record date for the meeting to the Corporation or to another corporation, if a majority of the shares entitled to vote in the election of directors of such other corporation is held, directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, shall neither be entitled to vote nor be counted for quorum purposes; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not limit the right of the Corporation to vote stock, including but not limited to its own stock, held by it in a fiduciary capacity.
Quorum
     Section 1.6. . Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by a Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman of the Board by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman of the Board by a Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer by a President, or in the absence of a President by a Chief Operating Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Operating Officer by a Vice President, or in the absence of the foregoing persons by a chairman designated by the Board of Directors, or in the absence of such designation by a chairman chosen at the meeting. A Secretary, or in the absence of a Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
     The order of business at each such meeting shall be as determined by the chairman of the meeting. The chairman of the meeting shall have the right and authority to adjourn a meeting of stockholders without a vote of stockholders and to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts and things as are necessary or desirable for the proper conduct of the meeting and are not inconsistent with any rules or regulations adopted by the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of the certificate
 
of incorporation, including the establishment of procedures for the maintenance of order and safety, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments on the affairs of the Corporation, restrictions on entry to such meeting after the time prescribed for the commencement thereof and the opening and closing of the voting polls for each item upon which a vote is to be taken.
     Section 1.7. . Prior to any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors, a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating Officer, a Vice President or any other officer designated by the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at such meeting and make a written report thereof and may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at the meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, count all votes and ballots, determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors and certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons to assist them in the performance of their duties. The date and time of the opening and closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxy or vote, nor any revocation thereof or change thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls. In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted therewith, any information provided by a stockholder who submits a proxy by telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission from which it can be determined that the proxy was authorized by the stockholder, ballots and the regular books and records of the Corporation, and they may also consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for such purpose, they shall, at the time they make their certification, specify the precise information considered by them, including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
Inspectors
     Section 1.8. . Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders shall be entitled to one vote for each share of stock held by such stockholder which has voting power upon the matter in question. If the certificate of incorporation provides for more or less than one vote for any share on any matter, every reference in these by-laws to a majority or other proportion of shares of stock shall refer to such majority or other
Voting; Proxies
 
proportion of the votes of such shares of stock. Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders may authorize another person or persons to act for such stockholder by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period. A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power, regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the Corporation generally. A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with a Secretary. Voting at meetings of stockholders need not be by written ballot unless so directed by the chairman of the meeting or the Board of Directors. In all matters, unless otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the affirmative vote of not less than a majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on such matter, with all shares of common stock of the Corporation and other stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter considered for this purpose as a single class, shall be the act of the stockholders. Where a separate vote by class or classes is required, the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority (or, in the case of an election of directors, a plurality) of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting by stockholders in that class or classes entitled to vote on such matter shall be the act of such class or classes, except as otherwise required by law, the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws. For purposes of this Section 1.8, votes cast "for" or "against" and "abstentions" with respect to such matter shall be counted as shares of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote on such matter, while "broker nonvotes" (or other shares of stock of the Corporation similarly not entitled to vote) shall not be counted as shares entitled to vote on such matter.
     Section 1.9. . In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment thereof, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall not be more than sixty nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
Fixing Date for Determination of Stockholders of Record
     In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than
 
sixty days prior to the action for which a record date is being established. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
     Section 1.10. . A Secretary shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the municipality where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
     Section 1.11. . (a) The matters to be considered and brought before any annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation (other than a Stockholder Requested Special Meeting) shall be limited to only such matters, including the nomination and election of directors, as shall be brought properly before such meeting in compliance with the procedures set forth in this Section 1.11.
Advance Notice of Stockholder Nominees for Director and Other Stockholder Proposals
     (b) For any matter to be properly brought before any annual meeting of stockholders, the matter must be (i) specified in the notice of annual meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise brought before the annual meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (iii) brought before the annual meeting in the manner specified in this Section 1.11(b) (x) by a stockholder that holds of record stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at the annual meeting on such matter (including any election of a director) or (y) by a person (a "Nominee Holder") that holds such stock through a nominee or "street name" holder of record of such stock and can demonstrate to the Corporation such indirect ownership of, and such Nominee Holder's entitlement to vote, such stock on such matter.
     In addition to any other requirements under applicable law, the certificate of incorporation and these by-laws, persons nominated by stockholders for election as directors of the Corporation and any other proposals by stockholders shall be properly brought before an annual meeting of stockholders only if notice of any such matter to be presented by a stockholder at such meeting (a "Stockholder Notice") shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not less than ninety nor more than one hundred and twenty days prior to the first anniversary date of the annual meeting for the preceding year; provided, however, that if and only if the annual meeting is not scheduled to be held within a period that commences thirty days before and ends thirty days after such anniversary date (an annual meeting date outside such period being referred to herein as an "Other Meeting Date"), such Stockholder Notice shall be given in the manner provided herein by the later of (i) the close of business on the date ninety
 
days prior to such Other Meeting Date or (ii) the close of business on the tenth day following the date on which such Other Meeting Date is first publicly announced or disclosed.
     Any stockholder desiring to nominate any person or persons (as the case may be) for election as a director or directors of the Corporation at an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, a statement in writing setting forth the name of the person or persons to be nominated, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by each such person, as reported to such stockholder by such person, the factual information regarding each such person required by paragraphs (a), (e) and (f) of Item 401 of Regulation S-K adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission, each such person's signed consent to serve as a director of the Corporation if elected, such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock for the election of directors at the annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed director nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as an independent director of the Corporation and to comply with applicable law. If a stockholder is entitled to vote only for a specific class or category of directors at a meeting (annual or special), such stockholder's right to nominate one or more individuals for election as a director at the meeting shall be limited to such class or category of directors.
     Any stockholder who gives a Stockholder Notice of any matter (other than a nomination for director) proposed to be brought before an annual meeting of stockholders shall deliver, as part of such Stockholder Notice, the text of the proposal to be presented and a brief written statement of the reasons why such stockholder favors the proposal and setting forth such stockholder's name and address, the number and class of all shares of each class of stock of the Corporation owned of record and beneficially by such stockholder, any material interest of such stockholder in the matter proposed (other than as a stockholder), if applicable, and, in the case of a Nominee Holder, evidence establishing such Nominee Holder's indirect ownership of stock and entitlement to vote such stock on the matter proposed at the annual meeting.
     As used in these by-laws, shares "beneficially owned" shall mean all shares which such person is deemed to beneficially own pursuant to Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 under the Exchange Act.
     Notwithstanding any provision of this Section 1.11 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders is increased by virtue of an increase in the size of the Board of Directors and either all of the nominees for director at the next annual meeting of stockholders or the size of the increased Board of Directors is not publicly announced or disclosed by the Corporation at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a Stockholder Notice shall also be
 
considered timely hereunder, but only with respect to nominees to stand for election at the next annual meeting as the result of any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which all such nominees or the size of the increased Board of Directors shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
     (c) For any matter to be properly brought before a special meeting of stockholders, the matter must be set forth in the Corporation's notice of such meeting given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by the Secretary of the Company pursuant to Section 1.2(a)(ii). In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote for the election of such director(s) at such meeting may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation's notice of such meeting, but only if a Stockholder Notice containing the information required by the third paragraph of Section 1.11(b) hereof shall be delivered to a Secretary at the principal executive office of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the first day on which the date of the special meeting and either the names of all nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting or the number of directors to be elected shall have been publicly announced or disclosed.
     (d) For purposes of this Section 1.11, a matter shall be deemed to have been "publicly announced or disclosed" if such matter is disclosed in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, the Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
     (e) In no event shall the postponement or adjournment of an annual meeting already publicly noticed or a special meeting, or any announcement thereof, commence a new period for the giving of notice as provided in this Section 1.11. This Section 1.11 shall not apply to (i) any stockholder proposal made pursuant to Rule 14a-8 under the Exchange Act, (ii) any nomination of a director in an election in which only the holders of one or more series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation issued pursuant to Article FOURTH of the certificate of incorporation are entitled to vote (unless otherwise provided in the terms of such stock) or (iii) any Stockholder Requested Special Meeting except as specifically provided in Section 1.2(b).
     (f) The chairman of any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall have the power and duty to determine whether notice of nominees and other matters proposed to be brought before a meeting has been duly given in the manner provided in this Section 1.11 or Section 1.2, as applicable and, if not so given, shall direct and declare at the meeting that such nominees and other matters shall not be considered.
 
     Section 2.1. . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, except as may be otherwise required by law or provided in the certificate of incorporation. The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fixed only by resolution of the Board of Directors from time to time. If the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled by the certificate of incorporation to elect one or more directors, the preceding sentence shall not apply to such directors and the number of such directors shall be as provided in the terms of such stock. Directors need not be stockholders.
Powers; Number; Qualifications
     Section 2.2. . Directors elected at each annual or special meeting of stockholders shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until their successors are elected and qualified or until their earlier resignation or removal. Each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast for or against the director at any meeting for the election of directors, provided that if the number of director nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors. If an incumbent director is nominated at an annual meeting of stockholders but is not elected, the director shall immediately tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors. Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors (other than any directors elected in the manner described in the next sentence) or from any other cause shall be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by the sole remaining director. Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled by the certificate of incorporation to elect one or more directors, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by, and only by, a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series then in office, or by the sole remaining director so elected. Any director elected or appointed to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders, and until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
Election; Term of Office; Vacancies
     Section 2.3. . Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at such places within or without the State of Delaware and at such times as the Board may from time to time determine, and if so determined notice thereof need not be given.
Regular Meetings
     Section 2.4. . Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time or place within or without the State of Delaware whenever called by the Board, by a Chairman of the Board, if any, by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, by a Chairperson of the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee, if any, by a Chief Executive Officer, if any, by a President, if any, by a Chief Operating Officer, if any, or
Special Meetings
 
by any two directors. Reasonable notice thereof shall be given by the person or persons calling the meeting.
     Section 2.5. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, members of the Board of Directors, or any committee designated by the Board, may participate in a meeting of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this by-law shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone Permitted
     Section 2.6. . At each meeting of the Board of Directors, one-half of the number of directors equal to (i) the total number of directors fixed by resolution of the board of directors (including any vacancies) plus (ii) the number of directors elected by a holder or holders of Preferred Stock voting separately as a class, as described in the fourth paragraph of Article EIGHTH of the certificate of incorporation (including any vacancies), shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws shall require a vote of a greater number. In case at any meeting of the Board a quorum shall not be present, the members or a majority of the members of the Board present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum; Vote Required for Action
     Section 2.7. . Meetings of the Board of Directors shall be presided over by a Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Chairman of the Board by a Vice Chairman of the Board, if any, or in the absence of a Vice Chairman of the Board, by a Chief Executive Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Executive Officer, by a President, or in the absence of a President, by a Chief Operating Officer, or in the absence of a Chief Operating Officer, by a chairman chosen at the meeting. A Secretary, or in the absence of a Secretary an Assistant Secretary, shall act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of a Secretary and any Assistant Secretary the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
Organization
     Section 2.8. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors, or of any committee thereof, may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board or of such committee, as the case may be, then in office consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or committee.
Action by Directors Without a Meeting
     Section 2.9. . Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, the Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors.
Compensation of Directors
     Section 2.10. . (a) Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board of Directors or to a Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Chief Operating
Director Resignation and Removal
 
Officer or a Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein and, unless otherwise specified therein (and except for a resignation described in subsection (b) below), no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. No director may be removed except as provided in the certificate of incorporation.
     (b) In the case of a resignation required to be tendered under Section 2.2 of these by-laws, the Board of Directors will determine, through a process managed by the Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and excluding the incumbent director in question, whether to accept the resignation at or before its next regularly scheduled Board meeting after the date of the meeting for the election of directors. Absent a significant reason for the director to remain on the Board of Directors, the Board shall accept the resignation. The Board's decision and an explanation of any determination not to accept the director's resignation shall be disclosed promptly in a Form 8-K filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
     Section 3.1. . The Board of Directors may designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the Corporation. The Board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not such member or members constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member. Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors or in these by-laws, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation, and may authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have the power or authority in reference to the following matters: (i) approving or adopting, or recommending to the stockholders, any action or matter expressly required by law to be submitted to stockholders for approval or (ii) adopting, amending or repealing these by-laws.
Committees
     Section 3.2. . Unless the Board of Directors otherwise provides, each committee designated by the Board may adopt, amend and repeal rules for the conduct of its business. In the absence of a provision by the Board or a provision in the rules of such committee to the contrary, a majority of the entire authorized number of members of such committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, the vote of a majority of the members present at a meeting at the time of such vote if a quorum is then present shall be the act of such committee, and in other respects each committee shall conduct its business in the same manner as the Board conducts its business pursuant to Article II of these by-laws.
Committee Rules
 
     Section 4.1. . The Board of Directors shall take such action as may be necessary from time to time to ensure that the Corporation has such officers as are necessary, under Section 5.1 of these by-laws and the Delaware General Corporation Law as currently in effect or as the same may hereafter be amended, to enable it to sign stock certificates. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may elect (i) one or more Chairmen of the Board and/or one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board from among its members, (ii) one or more Chief Executive Officers, one or more Presidents and/or one or more Chief Operating Officers, (iii) one or more Vice Presidents, one or more Treasurers and/or one or more Secretaries and/or (iv) one or more other officers, in the case of each of (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) if and to the extent the Board deems desirable. The Board of Directors may give any officer such further designations or alternate titles as it considers desirable. In addition, the Board of Directors at any time and from time to time may authorize any officer of the Corporation to appoint one or more officers of the kind described in clauses (iii) and (iv) above. Any number of offices may be held by the same person and directors may hold any office unless the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws otherwise provide.
Officers; Election or Appointment
     Section 4.2. . Unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors electing or authorizing the appointment of any officer, each officer shall hold office until his or her successor is elected or appointed and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the Board or to such person or persons as the Board may designate. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, and unless otherwise specified therein no acceptance of such resignation shall be necessary to make it effective. The Board may remove any officer with or without cause at any time. Any officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold an office of the Corporation may also remove such person from such office with or without cause at any time, unless otherwise provided in the resolution of the Board providing such authorization. Any such removal shall be without prejudice to the contractual rights of such officer, if any, with the Corporation, but the election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contractual rights. Any vacancy occurring in any office of the Corporation by death, resignation, removal or otherwise may be filled by the Board at any regular or special meeting or by an officer authorized by the Board to appoint a person to hold such office.
Term of Office; Resignation; Removal; Vacancies
     Section 4.3. . The officers of the Corporation shall have such powers and duties in the management of the Corporation as shall be stated in these by-laws or in a resolution of the Board of Directors which is not inconsistent with these by-laws and, to the extent not so stated, as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the control of the Board. A Secretary or such other officer appointed to do so by the Board shall have the duty to record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders, the Board of Directors and any committees in a book to be kept for that
Powers and Duties
 
purpose. The Board may require any officer, agent or employee to give security for the faithful performance of his or her duties.
     Section 5.1. . The shares of stock in the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation may provide by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to any such shares represented by a certificate theretofore issued until such certificate is surrendered to the Corporation. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by a Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board or a President or Vice President, and by a Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer, Secretary or Assistant Secretary, representing the number of shares of stock in the Corporation owned by such holder. If such certificate is manually signed by one officer or manually countersigned by a transfer agent or by a registrar, any other signature on the certificate may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if such person were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. Certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation may bear such legends regarding restrictions on transfer or other matters as any officer or officers of the Corporation may determine to be appropriate and lawful.
Certificates; Uncertificated Shares
     If the Corporation is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights shall be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock, provided that, except as otherwise required by law, in lieu of the foregoing requirements, there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate which the Corporation shall issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of such class or series of stock and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated shares of any class or series of stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required by law to be set forth or stated on certificates representing shares of such class or series or a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or
 
other special rights of such class or series and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
     Except as otherwise provided by law or these by-laws, the rights and obligations of the holders of uncertificated shares and the rights and obligations of the holders of certificates representing stock of the same class and series shall be identical.
     Section 5.2. . The Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and the Corporation may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate, or such owner's legal representative, to give the Corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.
Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Stock Certificates; Issuance of New Certificates
     Section 6.1. . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be determined by the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year
     Section 6.2. . The Corporation may have a corporate seal which shall have the name of the Corporation inscribed thereon and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors. The corporate seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Seal
     Section 6.3. . Whenever notice is required to be given by law or under any provision of the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice unless so required by the certificate of incorporation or these by-laws.
Waiver of Notice of Meetings of Stockholders, Directors and Committees
     Section 6.4. . The Corporation shall indemnify to the full extent permitted by law any person made or threatened to be made a party to any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative, by reason of the fact that such person or such person's testator or intestate is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, is or was a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of a Subsidiary of the Corporation, is or was a member of the Shareholders' Committee acting pursuant to the Amended and Restated Shareholders'
Indemnification
 
Agreement, dated as of May 7, 1999, among the Corporation and the Covered Persons listed on Appendix A thereto, as amended from time to time, or serves or served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise. Expenses, including attorneys' fees, incurred by any such person in defending any such action, suit or proceeding shall be paid or reimbursed by the Corporation promptly upon demand by such person and, if any such demand is made in advance of the final disposition of any such action, suit or proceeding, promptly upon receipt by the Corporation of an undertaking of such person to repay such expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation. The rights provided to any person by this by-law shall be enforceable against the Corporation by such person, who shall be presumed to have relied upon it in serving or continuing to serve as a director or officer or in such other capacity as provided above. In addition, the rights provided to any person by this by-law shall survive the termination of such person as any such director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator and, insofar as such person served at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, trustee, member, stockholder, partner, incorporator or liquidator of or in any other capacity for any other enterprise, shall survive the termination of such request as to service prior to termination of such request. No amendment of this by-law shall impair the rights of any person arising at any time with respect to events occurring prior to such amendment.
     Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 6.4, except for proceedings to enforce rights provided in this Section 6.4, the Corporation shall not be obligated under this Section 6.4 to provide any indemnification or any payment or reimbursement of expenses to any director, officer or other person in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person (which shall not include counterclaims or crossclaims initiated by others) unless the Board of Directors has authorized or consented to such proceeding (or part thereof) in a resolution adopted by the Board.
     For purposes of this by-law, the term "Subsidiary" shall mean any corporation, partnership, limited liability company or other entity in which the Corporation owns, directly or indirectly, a majority of the economic or voting ownership interest; the term "other enterprise" shall include any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity and any employee benefit plan; the term "officer," when used with respect to the Corporation, shall refer to any officer elected by or appointed pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation pursuant to clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of Section 4.1 of these by-laws, when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is a corporation, shall refer to any person elected or appointed pursuant to the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or chosen in such manner as is prescribed by the by-laws of such Subsidiary or other enterprise or determined by the board of directors of such Subsidiary or other enterprise, and when used with respect to a Subsidiary or other enterprise that is not a corporation or is organized in a foreign jurisdiction, the term "officer" shall include in addition to any officer of such entity, any person serving in a similar capacity or as the manager of such entity; service "at the request of the Corporation" shall include service as a director or officer of the Corporation which
 
imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director or officer with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to be indemnifiable expenses; and action by a person with respect to an employee benefit plan which such person reasonably believes to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of such plan shall be deemed to be action not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation.
     To the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, the Corporation may provide to (i) any one or more employees and other agents of the Corporation, (ii) any one or more officers, employees and other agents of any Subsidiary and (iii) any one or more directors, officers, employees and other agents of any other enterprise, rights of indemnification and to receive payment or reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, that are similar to the rights conferred in this Section 6.4 on directors and officers of the Corporation or any Subsidiary or other enterprise. Any such rights shall have the same force and effect as they would have if they were conferred in this Section 6.4.
     Nothing in this Section 6.4 shall limit the power of the Corporation or the Board of Directors to provide rights of indemnification and to make payment and reimbursement of expenses, including attorneys' fees, to directors, officers, employees, agents and other persons otherwise than pursuant to this Section 6.4.
     Section 6.5. . No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, association or other unincorporated organization or other entity in which one or more of its directors or officers serve as directors, officers, trustees or in a similar capacity or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: (i) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; (ii) the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by a vote of the stockholders; or (iii) the contract or transaction is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board, a committee thereof or the stockholders. Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction.
Interested Directors; Quorum
     Section 6.6. . Any records maintained by the Corporation in the regular course of its business, including its stock ledger, books of account and minute books, may be kept on, or be in the form of, punch cards, magnetic tape, photographs,
Form of Records
 
microphotographs or any other information storage device, provided that the records so kept can be converted into clearly legible form within a reasonable time. The Corporation shall so convert any records so kept upon the request of any person entitled to inspect the same.
     Section 6.7. . (a) For purposes of these by-laws, any reference to a statute, rule or regulation of any governmental body means such statute, rule or regulation (including any successor thereto) as the same may be amended from time to time.
Laws and Regulations; Close of Business
     (b) Any reference in these by-laws to the close of business on any day shall be deemed to mean 5:00 P.M. New York time on such day, whether or not such day is a business day.
     Section 6.8. . These by-laws may be amended, modified or repealed, and new by-laws may be adopted at any time, by the Board of Directors. Stockholders of the Corporation may adopt additional by-laws and amend, modify or repeal any by-law whether or not adopted by them, but only in accordance with Article SIXTH of the certificate of incorporation.
Amendment of By-Laws


