FILE:GS/GS-8K-20121016214859.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On October 15, 2012, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the Registrant) announced that Adebayo O. Ogunlesi has been appointed a member of the Registrant's Board of Directors, effective October 15, 2012. Mr. Ogunlesi also has been appointed to each of the Registrant's Audit, Compensation, Risk and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees. With the appointment of Mr. Ogunlesi, the Registrant's Board consists of eleven directors.
Mr. Ogunlesi is the Chairman and Managing Partner of Global Infrastructure Partners, LLC. Affiliates of the Registrant (referred to collectively as Goldman Sachs) from time to time provide ordinary course financial advisory, lending, investment banking and other financial services to Global Infrastructure Partners, LLC and its affiliates (referred to collectively as GIP), which are negotiated on an arm's-length basis and contain customary terms and conditions.
In each of October 2011 and February 2012, Goldman Sachs acted as a member of the underwriting syndicate in connection with a registered offering in which funds managed by GIP sold equity interests in a portfolio company and received net proceeds of approximately $250 million. In connection with his role at GIP, Mr. Ogunlesi is entitled to less than 1.5% of the total profits of the funds that participated in these transactions, and also has a direct or indirect interest in such funds, amounting to less than 0.01% of such funds.
A copy of the Registrant's press release relating to Mr. Ogunlesi's appointment as director is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. | 200 West Street | New York, New York 10282
 
NEW YORK, October 15, 2012  The Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) today announced the appointment of Adebayo O. Ogunlesi as an independent director of the firm, effective October 15, 2012. Mr. Ogunlesi's appointment expands the Board to 11 directors, nine of whom are independent directors. The firm expects to appoint an additional independent director to its board in the near term. Mr. Ogunlesi will be a member of each of the firm's Audit, Risk, Compensation and Corporate Governance and Nominating committees.
"Adebayo brings extensive experience in finance and the global capital markets to our Board of Directors," said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and CEO of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. "He has advised companies and institutions around the world and invested in many of the most important sectors in the global economy. Our board and our shareholders will benefit from Adebayo's wealth of knowledge and rigorous thinking."
Mr. Ogunlesi is the Managing Partner and Chairman of Global Infrastructure Partners, a private equity firm that invests worldwide in infrastructure assets in the energy, transport, and water and waste industry sectors. From 1983 to 2006 Mr. Ogunlesi held various positions at Credit Suisse Investment Bank (and predecessor firms), including as Executive Vice Chairman and Chief Client Officer (2004-2006), a member of the Executive Board and Management Committee (2002-2006) and Head of Global Investment Banking (2002-2004). Prior to joining Credit Suisse, Mr. Ogunlesi was an attorney at Cravath, Swaine & Moore, LLP (1981-1983) and served as a law clerk to the Honorable Thurgood Marshall, Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court (1980-1981).
Mr. Ogunlesi currently serves on the board of directors of each of Callaway Golf Co. and Kosmos Energy Ltd. In addition, Mr. Ogunlesi is the Chairman of Africa Finance Corporation and serves on the boards of various not-for-profit entities, including NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital, The NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, Inc., the Partnership for New York City Fund, the Smithsonian National Museum of African Art and Americans for Oxford. He is a graduate of Oxford University, Harvard Business School and Harvard Law School.
 
 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world.


