FILE:GS/GS-8K-20121105180735.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(d) On November 5, 2012, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the Registrant) announced that Mark Edward Tucker has been appointed a member of the Registrant's Board of Directors, effective November 5, 2012. Mr. Tucker also has been appointed to each of the Registrant's Audit, Compensation, Risk and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committees. With the appointment of Mr. Tucker, the Registrant's Board consists of twelve directors.
A copy of the Registrant's press release relating to Mr. Tucker's appointment as director is being furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K. Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities under that Section and shall not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. | 200 West Street | New York, New York 10282
 
                
NEW YORK, November 5, 2012  The Board of Directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (NYSE: GS) today announced the appointment of Mark Edward Tucker as an independent director of the firm, effective November 5, 2012. Mr. Tucker's appointment expands the Board to 12 directors, 10 of whom are independent directors. Mr. Tucker will be a member of each of the firm's Audit, Risk, Compensation and Corporate Governance and Nominating committees.
"Mark has broad and deep operating and strategic experience across Asia Pacific, Europe and North America. And, with his nearly three decades of leadership in the insurance and banking sectors, Mark has a proven understanding of effective risk management," said Lloyd C. Blankfein, Chairman and CEO of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. "Our Board, our shareholders and our people will benefit significantly from his strengths and perspective."
Mr. Tucker is the Group Chief Executive and President of AIA Group Limited, the world's largest independent publicly listed pan-Asian life insurance group. From 2005 to 2009, Mr. Tucker was Group Chief Executive of Prudential plc. He held various positions at Prudential plc from 1986 through 2003, including as Founder and Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia and as an executive director of Prudential plc.
Mr. Tucker served as a non-executive director of The Court of The Bank of England from 2009 to 2012 and as a member of its Financial Stability Committee and Audit and Risk Committee. He is a member of the International Advisory Committee of the International Centre for Financial Regulation. He is a graduate of the University of Leeds and is qualified as a Chartered Accountant.
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. is a leading global investment banking, securities and investment management firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a substantial and diversified client base that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments and high-net-worth individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around the world.
 
 


