FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20021025164202.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Set forth below is a press release issued by Verizon Communications Inc. on October 25, 2002 announcing earnings for the third quarter of 2002 and updated its guidance for the full year. In a conference call with analysts and investors following the release, Verizon discussed its quarterly results and guidance, indicating that:
NEWS RELEASE
 
Verizon News Release, page 2
     Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) today announced earnings of $2.1 billion, or diluted EPS of 77 cents, before non-recurring items for the third quarter of 2002. As in the second quarter, the company added more than 2 million retail accounts in three growth businesses with the addition of 1.1 million Verizon Wireless net retail customers, and the net addition of 804,000 long-distance customers and 155,000 DSL lines.
NEW YORK 
     Reported earnings were $4.4 billion, or $1.60 in diluted EPS, and included non-recurring gains from previously announced asset and investment sales that closed in the third quarter.
     Excluding non-recurring items, total third-quarter operating revenues increased 0.6 percent to $17.1 billion from $17.0 billion, including a double-digit increase in Verizon Wireless revenues, which grew 10.2 percent to $5.0 billion from $4.5 billion.
     Third-quarter cash expenses, excluding non-recurring items, declined slightly to just below $9.7 billion. Total revenues, operating expenses and statistics reflect Verizon operations on a comparable basis, excluding the 1.27 million switched access lines sold during the quarter, and including the consolidation of Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico, Inc. (PRTC) and the deconsolidation of CTI Holdings S.A. beginning this year.
     "Taking into account the external factors that continue to weigh on our industry, these results show that Verizon is executing effectively as we pull away from the pack in the telecom sector," said Chief Executive Officer Ivan Seidenberg. "Verizon is a national company with a more diversified portfolio, and we have demonstrated the ability to add customers and gain market share during troubled economic times.
     "At the same time, we are doing more than simply adding customers. We continue to distinguish ourselves in cash management and in cost control over the long term, and with an emphasis on product innovation and customer service."
     Seidenberg added, "We have a sustainable model for creating long-term value for shareowners. Our world-class networks will drive further innovation and productivity improvements  the types of improvements that have allowed us to maximize the efficiency of our capital spending this year. We also see further opportunities that will enable us to continue to gain share in key markets in the future. For example, we look forward to offering business
 
Verizon News Release, page 3
customers an expanded product portfolio when we gain our few remaining long-distance approvals in the coming months."
     Seidenberg reiterated the company's 2002 guidance of revenues of 0 to minus 1 percent and diluted EPS of $3.05 to $3.09. Guidance for capital expenditures has been lowered to $12.3 to $12.7 billion, from $13 to $13.5 billion, and guidance for year-end net debt has been set at $55 to $56 billion.
     Capital expenditures totaled $2.6 billion in the third quarter and have been reduced by $4.4 billion, to $8.1 billion, through the first nine months of the year, compared with the same period in 2001.
     Free cash flow (cash from operating activities less capital expenditures and dividends) improved by $7.3 billion for the first nine months this year, compared with the same period last year.
     In the third quarter, Verizon reduced net debt by $6.8 billion, to $51.8 billion from $58.6 billion at the end of the second quarter. This is an $11.5 billion reduction since year-end 2001. Verizon reduced commercial paper by $5.0 billion in the quarter, to $3.5 billion  a $9.3 billion reduction since year-end 2001. At the end of the third quarter, the company held $5.7 billion in cash and total debt of $57.5 billion  a $6.8 billion reduction since year-end 2001.
     Verizon Wireless, the largest U.S. wireless company, added a net of 803,000 customers in the third quarter, a 6.8 percent improvement since third quarter 2001. Total customers grew by 1.2 million in the third quarter, to 31.5 million, when including the additional 411,000 customers acquired from Price Communications Corp.
     While Verizon Wireless added 1.1 million net retail customers in the quarter, it experienced a loss of the remaining 308,000 WorldCom Inc. resale customers. Verizon Wireless no longer has any WorldCom resale subscribers in its customer base.
     Verizon Wireless increased total revenues in the quarter by 10.2 percent to $5.0 billion from $4.5 billion in the third quarter last year. Strong customer growth was coupled with increased service revenue per subscriber per month, which was up slightly to almost $50, compared with third quarter 2001. The company's EBITDA margin was 39 percent in the quarter, equivalent to the same margin in third quarter 2001.
 
Verizon News Release, page 4
     Verizon equaled its most successful quarter to date in adding new long-distance customers. The net addition of 804,000 customers in the third quarter brings the total customer base to 9.8 million, a 44 percent year-over-year increase and close to the company's previously announced year-end 2002 target of 10 million or more long-distance customers.
     Also in the third quarter, Verizon added 155,000 DSL lines for a total of 1.64 million, a 70 percent year-over-year increase, as the company continues on course to its year-end target of 1.8 to 2 million lines. Total DSL lines include a downward adjustment of approximately 15,000 to account for customers in three states included in the third-quarter access line sales.
     Cash expenses for Verizon's largest business unit, Domestic Telecom, have decreased over the prior-year period for seven consecutive quarters and by $880 million for the first nine months of 2002, compared with the 2001 period. In the third quarter 2002, the unit's cash expenses on a comparable basis were down 3.3 percent to $5.8 billion from $6.0 billion in the third quarter 2001.
     While overall Domestic Telecom revenues decreased 1.8 percent to $10.2 billion, long-distance revenues, which include revenues from the competitive local toll market, were $0.9 billion, an 8.8 percent increase over the same period last year.
     For the third quarter 2002, Verizon reported consolidated earnings of $4.4 billion, or $1.60 per diluted share, compared with earnings of $1.9 billion, or 69 cents per share, in the third quarter last year.
     Approximately $2.3 billion in quarterly after-tax earnings, or 83 cents per share, are for non-recurring items, including $1.8 billion in gains from asset and investment sales and nearly $1.0 billion in tax benefits. These gains were offset by after-tax charges totaling $465 million, including $185 million related to severance costs for prior force reductions and $280 million for merger transition costs, losses related to Verizon's investment in Cable & Wireless plc, asset impairments and other items.
     Reported third-quarter operating revenues increased 1.2 percent to $17.2 billion from $17.0 billion in the third quarter 2001.
 
Verizon News Release, page 5
     Following are third-quarter 2002 highlights from Verizon's four business segments.
Domestic Telecom:
     
Current and prior periods exclude the 1.27 million switched access lines sold during the third quarter of 2002.
 
Verizon News Release, page 6
Verizon Wireless:
 
Verizon News Release, page 7
International:
     
Reflects deconsolidation of CTI to the equity method and consolidation of PRTC in both the current and prior periods.
Information Services:
 
Verizon News Release, page 8
     Verizon Communications (NYSE:VZ) is one of the world's leading providers of communications services. Verizon companies are the largest providers of wireline and wireless communications in the United States, with 135.0 million access line equivalents and 31.5 million Verizon Wireless customers. Verizon is also the largest directory publisher in the world. With more than $67 billion in annual revenues and more than 236,000 employees, Verizon's global presence extends to more than 35 countries in the Americas, Europe, Asia and the Pacific. For more information on Verizon, visit www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at www.verizon.com/news. To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
NOTE: This press release contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the duration and extent of the current economic downturn; materially adverse changes in economic conditions in the markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments; material changes in available technology; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the final results of federal and state regulatory proceedings concerning our provision of retail and wholesale services and judicial review of those results; the effects of competition in our markets; our ability to satisfy regulatory merger conditions and obtain combined company revenue enhancements and cost savings; the ability of Verizon Wireless to achieve revenue enhancements and cost savings, and obtain sufficient spectrum resources; the outcome of litigation concerning the FCC NextWave spectrum auction; our ability to recover insurance proceeds relating to equipment losses and other adverse financial impacts resulting from the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001; and changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings.
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Consolidated Statements of Income
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Footnote:
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Consolidated Statements of Income before Non-Recurring Items
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Earnings Reconciliations
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Footnotes:
Verizon Communications Inc. Selected Financial and Operating Statistics
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Footnote:
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Consolidated Balance Sheets
(dollars in millions)
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(dollars in millions)
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Domestic Telecom  Selected Financial Results
(dollars in millions)
Footnotes:
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of non-recurring items. Intercompany and intersegment transactions have not been eliminated. EBITDA is determined by adding depreciation and amortization to operating income. EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing EBITDA by total operating revenues. Certain reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
Verizon Communications Inc. Domestic Telecom  Selected Operating Statistics
Footnote:
Certain reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
 
Verizon Communications Inc. Verizon Wireless  Selected Operating Results
(dollars in millions)
 
Verizon Communications Inc. International  Selected Financial Results
(dollars in millions)
Footnotes:
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of non-recurring items. Intercompany and intersegment transactions have not been eliminated. Certain reclassifications of prior period amounts have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results. Also, reflects the deconsolidation of CTI to the equity method and the consolidation of PRTC in both current and prior years. EBITDA is determined by adding depreciation and amortization to operating income. EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing EBITDA by operating revenues.
Verizon Communications Inc. Information Services  Selected Financial Results
(dollars in millions)
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


