FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20050121142442.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
On January 19, 2005, the Human Resources Committee (the Committee) of the Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (the Verizon Board) approved the 2004 short-term incentive awards for the named executive officers other than the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and recommended that the independent directors of the Verizon Board approve the short-term award for Mr. Ivan Seidenberg, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The independent directors approved Mr. Seidenberg's award on January 20, 2005.
 
These short-term incentive awards were granted under the Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) Short-Term Incentive Plan. The awards were determined based upon Verizon's actual and comparative performance during 2004 as measured against pre-established performance objectives. The pre-established performance objectives are based primarily upon financial measures, specifically, earnings per share and revenue excluding the net impact of pension and post-retirement benefits. A portion of the award is also based upon customer service and diversity objectives. The Committee determined that it will use these performance measures and criteria, along with an individual's performance, in order to determine short-term incentive award amounts for 2005 and forward, until it determines that other criteria are more appropriate.
 
The following table reflects the 2004 short-term incentive awards made to each of the named executive officers.
 
 
On January 19, 2005, the Committee also recommended that the independent directors of the Verizon Board increase Mr. Seidenberg's salary to $2,100,000. Mr. Seidenberg's new base salary was determined based upon his individual performance, market changes in the value of his position, and the economic and business conditions affecting Verizon. His base salary is in alignment with the base salary levels of the chief executive officers at other large global public companies comparable to Verizon. This is the first base salary increase that Mr. Seidenberg has received since June of 2000. Based on this data, on January 20, 2005, the independent directors of the Verizon Board approved Mr. Seidenberg's salary increase as of January 1, 2005.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


