FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20051006144149.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release dated October 6, 2005 announcing the approval of the Verizon-MCI merger by the shareholders of MCI.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
MCI, Inc. (NASDAQ:MCIP) and Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) announced that MCI shareholders who voted today approved the combination of the two companies by an overwhelming margin.
NEW YORK and ASHBURN, Va. 
 
This action represents significant progress in completing the merger. The companies are in the process of obtaining the remaining federal, state and international approvals. Today's vote adds to the momentum for final closure of the transaction in late 2005 or early 2006.
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
"Today's vote brings us an important step closer to completing the MCI transaction," said Verizon Chairman and CEO Ivan Seidenberg. "We look forward to creating a company that is better able to compete in today's large-business and government marketplace, invest in critical infrastructure and offer the nation's most advanced broadband platform with next-generation multimedia services."
 
"This vote of support by our shareholders represents a key milestone in the merger approval process," said Michael D. Capellas, MCI president and chief executive officer. "The combined company will have the strength and assets necessary to be a competitive force in today's transforming communications marketplace."
 
The combination, part of the continuing evolution of the industry driven by customers and technology, will capitalize on the complementary strengths of each company and create one of the world's leading providers of communications services.
 
The merger will enable Verizon to better compete for and serve large-business and government customers with a full range of services, including wireless and sophisticated Internet Protocol-based services.
 
It will benefit consumers and businesses by creating a supplier with the financial strength to maintain and improve MCI's extensive Internet backbone network.
 
With more than $71 billion in annual revenues, Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) is one of the world's leading providers of communications services. Verizon has a diverse work force of more than 214,000 in four business units: Domestic Telecom provides customers based in 28 states with wireline and other telecommunications services, including broadband. Verizon Wireless owns and operates the nation's most reliable wireless network, serving 47.4 million voice and data customers across the United States. Information Services operates directory publishing businesses and provides electronic commerce services. International includes wireline and wireless operations and investments, primarily in the Americas and Europe. For more information, visit
.
www.verizon.com
 
MCI, Inc. (NASDAQ: MCIP) is a leading global communications provider, delivering innovative, cost-effective, advanced communications connectivity to businesses, governments and consumers. With one of
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
the most expansive global IP backbones and wholly-owned data networks, MCI develops the converged communications products and services that are the foundation for commerce and communications in today's market. For more information, go to www.mci.com.
 
 
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
 
NOTE: This press release contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: a significant change in the timing of, or the imposition of any government conditions to, the closing of the transaction; actual and contingent liabilities; and the extent and timing of our ability to obtain revenue enhancements and cost savings following the transaction. Additional factors that may affect the future results of Verizon and MCI are set forth in their respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at and .
investor.verizon.com/SEC/
www.mci.com/about/investor_relations/sec/


