FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20050304152121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release dated March 4, 2005 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) containing information pertaining to Verizon's March 4, 2005 dividend declaration.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 The Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) has declared a quarterly dividend of 40.5 cents per outstanding share, an increase of 2 cents, or 5.2 percent, from the previous quarter. The dividend is payable on May 2, 2005, to Verizon Communications shareowners of record at the close of business April 8.
NEW YORK
 
Verizon has approximately 2.7 million shareowners and approximately 2.8 billion shares of common stock outstanding. In 2004, the company made $4.3 billion in dividend payments.
 
With more than $71 billion in annual revenues, Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) is one of the world's leading providers of communications services. Verizon has a diverse work force of more than 210,000 in four business units: Domestic Telecom serves customers based in 29 states with wireline telecommunications services, including broadband, nationwide long-distance and other services. Verizon Wireless owns and operates the nation's most reliable wireless network, serving 43.8 million voice and data customers across the United States. Information Services operates directory publishing businesses and provides electronic commerce services. International includes wireline and wireless operations and investments, primarily in the Americas and Europe. For more information, visit .
www.verizon.com
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
 


