FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20050329170102.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On March 29, 2005, Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Verizon"), announced that it had entered into an amendment (the "Amended Merger Agreement") of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement"), dated as of February 14, 2005, among Verizon, its wholly owned subsidiary, ELI Acquisition, LLC ("Merger Sub") and MCI, Inc. ("MCI").
 
Under the Amended Merger Agreement, Verizon agreed to acquire MCI for $23.10 per share, not including the $0.40 per share cash dividend paid by MCI on March 15, 2005. MCI stockholders will receive total cash of $8.35 per share of MCI common stock. This represents up to $5.60 per share in special cash dividends, not including the $0.40 per share cash dividend paid by MCI on March 15, 2005 (less the amount of any dividends declared by MCI during the period from February 14, 2005 to the consummation of the acquisition of MCI by Verizon) and $2.75 per share in cash consideration (the "Per Share Cash Amount"). The previous Merger Agreement provided for up to $4.10 per share in special cash dividends, not including the $0.40 per share cash dividend paid by MCI on March 15, 2005 (less the amount of any dividends declared by MCI during the period from February 14, 2005 to the consummation of the acquisition of MCI by Verizon) and $1.50 per share in cash consideration. The Amended Merger Agreement also provides that Verizon will issue at least 0.4062 shares of Verizon common stock for each share of MCI common stock. The exact exchange ratio will be determined by dividing $14.75 by the volume weighted average of the closing prices of Verizon common stock, as such prices are reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape, for each of the 20 trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the effective time of the acquisition of MCI by Verizon and will be deemed equal to 0.4062 if the quotient is less than 0.4062.
 
The Amended Merger Agreement provides that the Per Share Cash Amount is subject to downward adjustment for certain remaining bankruptcy claims, including state tax claims, and certain international tax liabilities which exceed $1,775,000,000. (The adjustment threshold in the previous Merger Agreement was $1,725,000,000.)
 
The Amended Merger Agreement increases to $240,000,000 the termination fee that, under specified circumstances, MCI may be required to pay Verizon. Under the Amended Merger Agreement MCI also agreed to reimburse Verizon for up to $10,000,000 in expenses.
 
In addition, under the Amended Merger Agreement, in the event that the MCI board of directors changes, withdraws, modifies or qualifies its recommendation of the acquisition of MCI by Verizon to MCI stockholders as a result of a superior proposal, Verizon has the option to request MCI to cause a stockholder meeting to be held to consider approval of the acquisition of MCI by Verizon and the other transactions contemplated by the Amended Merger Agreement and the Merger Agreement. Under the previous Merger Agreement, this right was limited to situations in which such change in recommendation resulted from an event that was not known to the MCI board of directors as of the signing of the Merger Agreement which became known prior to MCI stockholder approval and which caused the MCI board of directors to conclude in good faith that its failure to effect a change in recommendation would result in a breach of its fiduciary duties to the MCI stockholders.
 
The foregoing description of the Amended Merger Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended Merger Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 hereto and the Merger Agreement, which was filed as Exhibit 2.1 to Form 8-K on February 17, 2005, both of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
 
 
 
On March 29, 2005, Verizon and MCI issued a joint press release announcing the execution of the Amended Merger Agreement.
 
The press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
This Form 8-K contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: a significant change in the timing of, or the imposition of any government conditions to, the closing of the transaction; actual and contingent liabilities; and the extent and timing of our ability to obtain revenue enhancements and cost savings following the transaction. Additional factors that may affect the future results of Verizon and MCI are set forth in their respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at investor.verizon.com/SEC/ and www.mci.com/about/investor_relations/sec/.
 
Verizon intends to file a registration statement, including a proxy statement of MCI, and other materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the proposed transaction. We urge investors to read these documents when they become available because they will contain important information. Investors will be able to obtain free copies of the registration statement and proxy statement, as well as other filed documents containing information about Verizon and MCI, at www.sec.gov, the SEC's website. Investors may also obtain free copies of these documents at www.verizon.com/investor, or by request to Verizon Communications Inc., Investor Relations, 1095 Avenue of the Americas, 36th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Free copies of MCI's filings are available at www.mci.com/about/investor_relations, or by request to MCI, Inc., Investor Relations, 22001 Loudoun County Parkway, Ashburn, VA 20147.
 
Verizon, MCI, and their respective directors, executive officers, and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from MCI shareowners with respect to the proposed transaction. Information about Verizon's directors and executive officers is available in Verizon's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of shareholders, dated March 21, 2005. Information about MCI's directors and executive officers is available in MCI's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the registration statement and proxy statement and other materials filed with the SEC.
 
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.1
 
 
This Amendment, dated as of March 29, 2005 (this "") to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of February 14, 2005, among Verizon Communications Inc., a Delaware corporation, Eli Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Verizon Communications Inc., and MCI, Inc., a Delaware corporation, as previously amended by letter agreement dated as of March 4, 2005, among the parties to the Merger Agreement (as so amended, the ""), is entered into by the parties to the Merger Agreement. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings specified in the Merger Agreement.
Amendment
Merger Agreement
 
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have entered into the Merger Agreement;
 
WHEREAS, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company desire to amend the Merger Agreement as provided in this Amendment; and
 
WHEREAS, the respective Boards of Directors of Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have deemed this Amendment advisable and in the best interests of their respective companies;
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements herein made and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
1. .
Merger Consideration and Related Provisions
 
(a) Section 1.8(a) of the Merger Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 
"At the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any action on the part of the holder thereof, each share of Company Common Stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (excluding any Company Restricted Shares and Excluded Shares) shall be converted into the right to receive () a number (the "") of validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable shares of Parent Common Stock equal to the greater of () 0.4062 and () the quotient obtained by dividing $14.75 by the Average Parent Stock Price (the ""), and () an amount in cash equal to $8.35 the amount of the Special Cash Dividend declared pursuant to Section 6.16 (the ""), without interest, together with any cash in lieu of fractional shares of Parent Common Stock to be paid pursuant to Section 2.5 (such shares and cash, the ""). Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
i
Exchange Ratio
A
B
Stock Consideration
ii
minus
Per Share Cash Amount
Base Merger Consideration
Exchange Ratio is greater than 0.4062, then Parent shall have the right, in its absolute discretion, to reduce the Exchange Ratio to an amount no less than 0.4062 and, in such case, the Per Share Cash Amount shall be increased by an amount (rounded to the nearest hundredth of a cent) equal to the product of () the amount by which Parent has reduced the Exchange Ratio and () the Average Parent Stock Price. The Exchange Ratio and the Per Share Cash Amount determined above shall be subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 1.10 (as so adjusted, the ""). For purposes of this Agreement, "" shall mean the volume weighted average of the closing prices of Parent Common Stock, as such prices are reported on the NYSE Composite Transactions Tape, for each of the 20 trading days ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the Effective Time."
x
y
Merger Consideration
Average Parent Stock Price
 
(b) Section 1.10(g) of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by () deleting the words "shall be equal to the product of () 0.4062" and replacing them with the words "following such adjustment shall be equal to the product of () the Exchange Ratio prior to such adjustment", and () deleting each reference to the number "$1,725,000,000" and replacing it with the number "$1,775,000,000".
i
x
x
ii
 
(c) Section 3.28 of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by () deleting the words "February 13, 2005" and replacing them with the words "March 29, 2005", and (ii) deleting the words ", the Special Cash Dividend and the $0.40 per share cash dividend declared by the Board of Directors of the Company on February 11, 2005" and replacing them with the words "and the Special Cash Dividend".
i
 
(d) Section 6.16 of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by (i) deleting the words "unless prohibited by applicable law or covenants in instruments of Indebtedness existing as of the date hereof" and replacing them with the words "to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or covenants in instruments of Indebtedness existing as of the date hereof", and (ii) deleting the reference to the number "$4.10" and replacing it with the number "$5.60".
 
2. .
Representations and Warranties
 
(a) The first paragraph of Article III of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by () adding, immediately after the words "prior to the date hereof", the words "or in the Company's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004", and () adding, immediately after the words "any such Company SEC Document", the words "or such Form 10-K".
i
ii
 
(b) The first paragraph of Article IV of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by () adding, immediately after the words "prior to the date hereof", the words "or in Parent's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004", and () adding, immediately after the words "any such Parent SEC Document", the words "or such Form 10-K".
i
ii
 
3. . Section 6.5(c) of the Merger Agreement shall be amended by () deleting the words "two Business Days" in the parenthetical to clause (ii) in the second proviso of its second sentence and replacing them with the words "three Business Days", and () deleting the words "as a result of an Intervening Event" in its fourth sentence.
Non-Solicitation
a
b
 
4. .
Termination and Termination Fee
 
(a) Section 8.1(d)(ii) of the Merger Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows:
 
"(ii) pursuant to the last sentence of Section 6.5(c), if the Company, prior to the termination of this Agreement, pays the Termination Fee (as defined in Section 8.3(a)) to Parent."
 
(b) Sections 8.3(a) and 8.3(b) of the Merger Agreement shall be amended and restated to read in their entirety as follows:
 
"(a) If this Agreement is terminated pursuant to any of the following provisions, the Company shall pay to Parent a fee equal to $240,000,000 (the ""), which Termination Fee, together with the reimbursement of Expenses pursuant to Section 8.3(b), shall be Parent's sole remedy in respect of termination of this Agreement except in the case of any willful breach of this Agreement by the Company:
Termination Fee
 
(i) Sections 8.1(c)(ii) or (iii);
 
(ii) Section 8.1(d)(ii);
 
(iii) Section 8.1(b)(iii), that within twelve months after the date of such termination, the Company enters into a definitive agreement to consummate, or consummates, the transactions contemplated by any Takeover Proposal; and , , that, solely for purposes of this Section 8.3(a)(iii), the term "Takeover Proposal" shall have the meaning ascribed thereto in Section 6.5(e), except that all references to 15% shall be changed to 40%; or
provided
provided
further
 
(iv) Section 8.1(c)(i), , that such termination is based on a material breach of Section 6.2.
provided
 
(b) If the Company is required to pay Parent a Termination Fee, such Termination Fee shall be payable immediately prior to termination of this Agreement in
 
the event of termination by the Company, and not later than one Business Day after the receipt by the Company of a notice of termination from Parent in the event of termination by Parent, in each case by wire transfer of immediately available funds to an account designated by Parent (except that, in the case of termination pursuant to Section 8.1(b)(iii), such payment shall be made on the date of the first to occur of either of the events referred to in the first proviso to Section 8.3(a)(iii)). If the Company is required to pay Parent a Termination Fee, or this Agreement is terminated pursuant to Section 8.1(b)(iii), the Company shall, in addition to any Termination Fee that may be payable, reimburse Parent and Merger Sub for all of their Expenses, up to a maximum amount of $10,000,000, within one Business Day of receipt of written notice from Parent requesting payment thereof."
 
5. . Except as otherwise provided herein, all of the terms, covenants and other provisions of the Merger Agreement are hereby ratified and confirmed and shall continue to be in full force and effect in accordance with their respective terms. After the date hereof, all references to the Merger Agreement shall refer to the Merger Agreement as amended by this Amendment.
Ratification
 
6. . Section 9.10 of the Merger Agreement shall apply to this Amendment . This Amendment may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument and shall bind and inure to the benefit of the parties and their respective successors and assigns.
Miscellaneous
mutatis mutandi
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Parent, Merger Sub and the Company have caused this Amendment to be signed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, all as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) today announced it had agreed with MCI, Inc. to amend the terms of the agreement to acquire MCI. The MCI Board of Directors is recommending approval of the amended agreement to its shareholders.
NEW YORK
 
Under the amended agreement, Verizon will acquire MCI for $23.10 per MCI common share, not including the 40 cents per share cash dividend recently paid by MCI to its shareholders. MCI's shareholders will receive $23.50 per share including the recent 40 cent dividend, or approximately $7.6 billion in aggregate.
 
Under the revised agreement, MCI shareholders will receive total cash of $8.35 per share of MCI common stock. This represents up to $5.60 per share in special cash dividends (not including the 40 cents per share recently paid by MCI) and $2.75 per share in cash consideration. Verizon increased the cash consideration to be paid to MCI shareholders by $2.75 per share. In addition, MCI intends at the time of shareholder approval to accelerate payment of a $1.50 per share dividend for a total of up to $5.60 in dividends, less any interim dividends paid.
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
Verizon believes the revised terms provide MCI shareholders with substantial additional value. Verizon will issue no less than 0.4062 shares of Verizon stock for each share of MCI stock and has agreed to a downside protection mechanism that assures that the value of this stock component will be no less than $14.75 regardless of a decline in Verizon's stock price between signing and closing. In addition, the MCI shareholders will participate in the upside benefit if Verizon's stock price rises above the level that delivers the agreed minimum of $14.75 of value.
 
Under the amended terms, Verizon may elect to require MCI to put the proposed transaction with Verizon to a vote of the MCI shareholders. MCI has agreed that the "break-up fee" to be paid by MCI to Verizon under certain circumstances will be $240 million, and it has also agreed to reimburse Verizon for up to $10 million in expenses in certain circumstances.
 
Ivan Seidenberg, Verizon's chairman and CEO, said, "Verizon and MCI together create a formidable and highly competitive company delivering a full range of mission-critical voice and data products to businesses and government. We believe our agreement with MCI represents superior value and is a compelling proposition for MCI's shareholders, customers, employees and creditors."
 
With more than $71 billion in annual revenues, Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) is one of the world's leading providers of communications services. Verizon has a diverse work force of more than 210,000 in four business units: Domestic Telecom serves customers based in 29 states with wireline telecommunications services, including broadband and other services. Verizon Wireless owns and operates the nation's most reliable wireless network, serving 43.8 million voice and data customers across the United States. Information Services operates directory publishing businesses and provides electronic commerce services. International includes wireline and wireless operations and investments, primarily in the Americas and Europe. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
 
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
 
Verizon intends to file a registration statement, including a proxy statement of MCI, and other materials with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") in connection with the proposed transaction. We urge investors to read these documents when they become available because they will contain important information. Investors will be able to obtain free copies of the registration statement and proxy statement, as well as other filed documents containing information about Verizon and MCI, at , the SEC's website. Investors may also obtain free copies of these documents at , or by request to Verizon Communications Inc., Investor Relations, 1095 Avenue of the Americas, 36th Floor, New York, NY 10036. Free copies of MCI's filings are available at , or by request to MCI, Inc., Investor Relations, 22001 Loudoun County Parkway, Ashburn, VA 20147.
www.sec.gov
www.verizon.com/investor
www.mci.com/about/investor_relations
 
Verizon, MCI, and their respective directors, executive officers, and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from MCI shareowners with respect to the proposed transaction. Information about Verizon's directors and executive officers is available in Verizon's proxy statement for its 2005 annual meeting of shareholders, dated March 21, 2005. Information about MCI's directors and executive officers is available in MCI's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004. Additional information about the interests of potential participants will be included in the registration statement and proxy statement and other materials filed with the SEC.
 
NOTE: This press release contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: a significant change in the timing of, or the imposition of any government conditions to, the closing of the transaction; actual and contingent liabilities; and the extent and timing of our ability to obtain revenue enhancements and cost savings following the transaction. Additional factors that may affect the future results of Verizon and MCI are set forth in their respective filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which are available at and .
investor.verizon.com/SEC/
www.mci.com/about/investor_relations/sec/


