FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20060823122125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 3.01 Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing.
On August 21, 2006, Verizon Communications Inc. ("Verizon") received notice from the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") that Section 303A.02(a) of the NYSE Listed Company Manual requires that the director independence standards in Verizon's Corporate Governance Guidelines ("Guidelines") must be published in its annual proxy statement. The independence standards in Verizon's Guidelines are more stringent than the NYSE requirements, and we do not believe that our previous proxy statement disclosure was materially different from that required by the NYSE Listed Company Manual. However, after consultation with the NYSE, Verizon has determined to make the disclosure specified by the NYSE in this current report on Form 8-K.
The proxy statement for Verizon's 2006 Annual Meeting of Shareholders identified our independent directors and indicated that director independence is evaluated in accordance with applicable laws and regulations, the NYSE's listing standards and the criteria set forth in Verizon's Guidelines. The proxy statement indicated that Verizon's Guidelines are available from the office of Verizon's Assistant Corporate Secretary or through the Corporate Governance link on Verizon's website at .
www.verizon.com/investor
The independence standards in Verizon's Guidelines provide:
A Director is considered independent if the Board finds that the Director has no material relationship with the Corporation. In evaluating independence, the Board will not consider a Director independent if:
Independence.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


