FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20060201174018.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On a February 1, 2006 investor relations conference call, Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) provided an update on its fiber-to-the-premises deployment strategy, known as FiOS. Verizon indicated that earnings dilution from FiOS is expected to be approximately 10 - 15 cents per share higher in 2006 than in 2005, or 25 - 30 cents per share, and that it expects 2006 to be the peak year for earnings dilution from FiOS. The company also stated that its FiOS deployment cost decreased by approximately 30 percent in 2005 and is expected to decrease by an additional 15 - 20 percent in 2006.
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
Attached as an exhibit is a press release dated February 1, 2006 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) announcing the merger of its wholly-owned financing subsidiary, Verizon Global Funding Corp., with and into Verizon. Verizon also announced it will discontinue issuing commercial paper through another financing subsidiary, Verizon Network Funding, by the end of the first quarter of 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) announced that its wholly-owned financing subsidiary, Verizon Global Funding Corp., has merged with and into Verizon Communications, effective today. Verizon Communications also announced that its other financing subsidiary, Verizon Network Funding, would discontinue the issuance of commercial paper by the end of the first quarter of 2006.
NEW YORK 
 
These actions will simplify Verizon's future financing arrangements, since virtually all capital-raising transactions in the future will be conducted by Verizon Communications.
 
Verizon Global Funding previously issued short- and long-term debt and entered into credit agreements and other capital-raising transactions on behalf of Verizon Communications and its subsidiaries. Its debt totaled approximately $15.3 billion at year-end 2005.
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
These obligations were originally issued with a support agreement from Verizon Communications and are now, through operation of law, direct obligations of Verizon Communications. Similarly, the $3.4 billion debt obligations of GTE Corp. that had been guaranteed by Verizon Global Funding are now, through operation of law, guaranteed by Verizon Communications. Verizon Communications is also now the sole borrower under its $6 billion credit agreement.
 
Verizon anticipates that the credit rating agencies will assign ratings to Verizon Communications' debt equivalent to the ratings that were assigned to Verizon Global Funding's debt.
 
Verizon Network Funding currently issues commercial paper for the benefit of Verizon's telephone companies. Following the termination of this commercial paper program, funding for the Verizon telephone companies will be obtained by Verizon Communications.
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), a Dow 30 company, is a leader in delivering broadband and other communication innovations to wireline and wireless customers. Verizon operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving 51.3 million customers nationwide; one of the most expansive wholly-owned global IP networks; and one of the nation's premier wireline networks, serving home, business and wholesale customers. Based in New York, Verizon has a diverse workforce of approximately 250,000 and generates annual consolidated operating revenues of approximately $90 billion. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
 
 
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


