FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20061201171900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release dated December 1, 2006 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) related to Verizon's announcement that it has completed the sale of its interest in Verizon Dominicana.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) today closed on the sale of Verizon Canada Holdings Corp. to a subsidiary of Amrica Mvil, S.A. de C.V. (NYSE:AMX). As a result, the buyer has purchased Verizon's interest in Verizon Dominicana, which provides telecommunications services to more than 2.7 million wireless, wireline and broadband customers in the Dominican Republic. The transaction has received the approval of the Dominican Telecommunications Institute (Indotel).
NEW YORK 
The transaction was announced in April 2006, when Verizon also announced the execution of definitive agreements to sell its interests in Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico, Inc. (Puerto Rico Telephone) and Compaia Annima Nacional Telfonos de Venezuela
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
(CANTV, NYSE:VNT) to Amrica Mvil and a company owned jointly by Telfonos de Mxico and Amrica Mvil. These sales are proceeding.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), a New York-based Dow 30 company, is a leader in delivering broadband and other wireline and wireless communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving nearly 57 million customers nationwide. Verizon's Wireline operations include Verizon Business, which operates one of the most expansive wholly-owned global IP networks, and Verizon Telecom, which is deploying the nation's most advanced fiber-optic network to deliver the benefits of converged communications, information and entertainment services to customers. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


