FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20070430074808.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release and financial tables dated April 30, 2007 issued by Verizon Communications Inc.
Non-GAAP Measures
Verizon's press release and financial tables include financial information prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as well as non-GAAP financial information. The non-GAAP financial information may be determined or calculated differently by other companies.
The consolidated statements of income before special items eliminate special items and non-recurring items of revenues, expenses, gains and losses primarily as a result of their non-operational and/or non-recurring nature. In addition, special items include reclassification of prior periods' operating revenues and operating expenses of non-strategic operations sold in the current period. Management believes this presentation of operating performance assists readers in better understanding our results of operations and trends from period to period, consistent with management's evaluation of Verizon's consolidated and segment results of operations for a variety of internal measures including strategic business planning, capital allocation and compensation. Management believes that the consolidated statements of income before special items provide current and prior period results of operations on a comparable basis as well as provide trends that are more indicative of future operating results than GAAP results of operations, given the non-operational and/or non-recurring nature of the special items removed for purposes of reporting results of operations before special items. While some of these items have been periodically reported in Verizon's consolidated results of operations, their occurrence in future periods is dependent upon future business and economic factors, among other evaluation criteria, and may frequently be beyond the control of management. As a result of these factors, management also provides this information externally, along with a complete reconciliation to their comparable GAAP amounts so readers have access to the detail and general nature of adjustments made to GAAP results. Descriptions of the special items are provided in the schedules accompanying the press release.
Management believes that Verizon Wireless's cash expense per customer and Verizon Wireless's operating income before depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and EBITDA margin, additional non-GAAP financial measures, are also useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating operating financial performance. Verizon Wireless's cash expense per customer is determined by subtracting equipment and other revenue from Verizon Wireless's cost of sales and services and selling, general and administrative expenses, divided by average customers during the period. Verizon Wireless's EBITDA is determined by adding-back depreciation and amortization to operating income and the Verizon Wireless EBITDA margin is calculated by dividing Verizon Wireless's EBITDA by Verizon Wireless's service revenues. Verizon Wireless's cash expense per customer, EBITDA and EBITDA margin are non-GAAP operating performance measures that are used internally to evaluate current operating expense efficiency and operating profitability on a more variable cost basis by excluding the depreciation and amortization expenses related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions (particularly customer base amortization) that occurred in prior years. Cash expense per customer is determined by reflecting equipment and other revenue on a net cost basis in order to illustrate the impact of the net cost of selling handsets and other equipment to the customers and other similar transactions with customers. In addition, Verizon management uses this information to evaluate operating performance in relation to Verizon Wireless's competitors. The Verizon Wireless EBITDA margin utilizes service revenues rather than total revenues. Service revenues exclude primarily equipment revenues (as well as other non-service revenues) in order to capture the impact of providing service to the wireless customer base on an ongoing basis. Verizon Wireless's EBITDA margin is presented along with Verizon Wireless's operating income margin so as not to imply that more emphasis should be placed on it than the corresponding GAAP measure. Management believes that this presentation assists readers in preparing comparisons of this type of performance measure (operating profitability) using the GAAP measure as well as the measure segment management uses to evaluate segment results and perform comparisons to other wireless carriers.
The pro forma financial information presents the combined operating results of Verizon and the former MCI on a comparable basis, before special items. Management believes this presentation of pro forma financial information before special items assists readers in better understanding our results of operations and trends from period to period, consistent with management's evaluation of Verizon's consolidated and segment results of operations for a variety of internal measures. Management believes that the pro forma financial information provides current and prior period results of operations on a comparable basis and provides trends that are more indicative of future operating results than GAAP results of operations, given the merger during 2006 and the non-operational and/or non-recurring nature of the special items removed for purposes of reporting results of operations before special items. Management provides this information externally, along with a complete reconciliation to their comparable
GAAP amounts so readers have access to the detail and general nature of adjustments made to GAAP results. Descriptions of these pro forma items are provided in the schedules accompanying the press release.
It is management's intent to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance understanding of Verizon's GAAP consolidated financial statements and it should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
NEWS RELEASE
 
Consolidated Results
 
 
 
 
Wireless
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
Wireline
 
 
 
 
Note: Prior-period amounts have been reclassified to reflect comparable results. See the schedules accompanying this news release and
www.verizon.com/investor
for reconciliations to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the non-GAAP financial measures included in this announcement. Discontinued operations include Verizon Information Services, as well as interests in Verizon Dominicana and Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico. The dispositions of these non-strategic businesses were completed on Nov. 17, 2006; Dec. 1, 2006; and March 30, 2007, respectively.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) today reported strong, profitable first-quarter 2007 revenue growth, supported by industry-leading retail customer growth at Verizon Wireless and strong sales of broadband services, including video.
NEW YORK 
Verizon reported first-quarter 2007 earnings of $1.5 billion, or 51 cents in fully diluted earnings per share (EPS). This compares with EPS of 56 cents in the first quarter 2006  which includes operations that Verizon has since divested.
Verizon's first-quarter 2007 diluted EPS before discontinued operations was 51 cents, or 54 cents per share on an adjusted basis (before special items, non-GAAP), a 17.4 percent increase from 46 cents per share in the first quarter 2006.
In total, on an adjusted basis (non-GAAP), Verizon's first-quarter 2007 earnings were $1.6 billion, or 56 cents in EPS, compared with 60 cents in EPS in the first quarter 2006, which included operations that Verizon has since divested. Special item adjustments in the first quarter 2007 included an extraordinary loss of 5 cents in EPS due to the impact of the Venezuelan government's nationalization of telecommunications services.
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
"Verizon is off to a strong start in 2007," said Chairman and CEO Ivan Seidenberg. "Our results show that across-the-board we have accelerated organic growth in key markets: retail wireless, broadband, data, video and global IP [Internet protocol]."
Seidenberg added, "Verizon is focused on growing revenue, capturing market share, improving margins, increasing productivity, and providing the best customer experience. Throughout the first quarter, we built positive momentum on all these fronts, and this reinforces our confident outlook.
"We continue to drive value for shareholders. Our investment in advanced network platforms has been a foundation for product innovations and operating efficiencies, and we have divested non-strategic assets while maintaining our strong balance sheet and returning capital to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases."
Verizon's total operating revenues grew 6.4 percent, to $22.6 billion, comparing first quarter 2007 with first quarter 2006. On an adjusted basis (non-GAAP), which reflects comparable results for the sale of selected non-strategic assets in the first quarter 2007, year-over-year operating revenue growth was 6.5 percent.
Total operating expenses increased 4.1 percent, to $18.8 billion, and to $18.7 billion on an adjusted basis, which also represented a 4.1 percent increase. Operating income grew 19.6 percent, to $3.8 billion, and 19.5 percent on an adjusted basis, to $3.9 billion, over the same periods.
Verizon News Release, page 4
 
Because Verizon completed its merger with MCI, Inc. on Jan. 6, 2006, GAAP comparisons of the first quarters in 2006 and 2007 do not include five days of the former MCI's 2006 results. Comparing results on a pro-forma basis (non-GAAP)  as if Verizon and MCI had merged on Jan. 1, 2006  Verizon's adjusted operating revenues increased 5.4 percent and adjusted operating expenses increased 2.8 percent in the first quarter 2007.
Verizon's operating income margin rose to 16.8 percent in the first quarter 2007, compared with 15.0 percent in the first quarter 2006. On an adjusted basis and on a pro-forma basis, Verizon's operating income margin rose to 17.3 percent in the first quarter 2007, compared with 15.4 percent (adjusted) and 15.2 percent (pro-forma) in the first quarter 2006.
Verizon Wireless continued its record of strong, industry-leading retail net customer additions, revenue growth, profitability and low churn in the first quarter 2007.
Verizon Wireless remains the largest U.S. wireless company in terms of retail (non-wholesale) customers, total revenues and data revenues. In the first quarter:
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 5
 
 
 
Verizon's Wireline operations reported continued strong growth from broadband, video and strategic services. This segment includes Verizon Telecom, which serves residential and small-business customers, and Verizon Business, which provides advanced communications and information technology solutions to large-business and government customers globally. In the first quarter 2007:
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 6
 
 
Verizon Telecom added a net of 141,000 new FiOS TV customers in the first quarter 2007. Verizon served 348,000 FiOS TV customers as of the end of the quarter, and this growth is accelerating. The company averaged approximately 2,200 FiOS TV net customer additions per business day in the first quarter 2007, about 750 more net additions per business day than the fourth-quarter 2006 average.
Complementing the FiOS TV rollout, Verizon now serves 618,000 satellite TV customers in partnership with DIRECTV, for a total approaching 1 million video customers nationwide.
Revenues for Verizon Telecom's consumer market decreased by 3.5 percent, to $4.2 billion, comparing first quarter 2007 with first quarter 2006. However, in legacy Verizon markets, consumer revenues reversed recent year-over-year declines. (Legacy Verizon consumer markets exclude former MCI consumer markets  where Verizon's strategic focus has led to expected declines.) With an increasing shift to broadband and video sales, FiOS sales contributed to revenue growth in legacy Verizon markets of 1.6 percent, to $3.8 billion, comparing first quarter 2007 with first quarter 2006.
ARPU in this consumer market increased 8.5 percent, to $55.66, comparing first quarter 2007 with first quarter 2006.
Verizon News Release, page 7
 
Verizon Business reported first-quarter 2007 revenues of $5.2 billion, or growth of 2.3 percent compared with the first quarter 2006 on a pro-forma adjusted basis (non-GAAP, including MCI revenues from January 2006). This is the second consecutive quarter of positive year-over-year revenue growth.
Overall revenue growth at Verizon Business was driven by the continued momentum of strong sales of key strategic services, such as IP and managed services. In the first quarter 2007, strategic services generated $1.2 billion in revenue, up 22.8 percent from the first quarter 2006 on a pro-forma basis.
This resulted in year-over-year growth of more than $200 million in revenues from strategic services, and it exceeded declines in revenues from core services, such as traditional voice and data services. Sales of strategic services were also up sequentially, increasing 2.0 percent from the fourth quarter 2006.
Also during the quarter, Verizon Business rolled out significant enhancements to its global networking and managed services offerings. These rollouts focused on expanding strategic service offerings and enhancing global consistency among products.
At the consolidated level, Verizon reported $5.0 billion in cash flows from continuing operations for the first quarter 2007, compared with $5.6 billion in the first quarter 2006. First quarter 2007 included payments of about $500 million related to funding qualified pension plans.
Verizon News Release, page 8
 
Capital expenditures were in line with the company's previously announced plans. Expenditures totaled $4.2 billion in the first quarter 2007, compared with $4.0 billion in the first quarter 2006.
Verizon repurchased approximately $425 million in shares during the first quarter 2007, as part of a previously announced plan to repurchase $2 billion in shares over the course of the year.
Total debt at the end of the first quarter 2007 was $34.7 billion, down from $36.4 billion at year-end 2006. Verizon reduced its total debt by $7.7 billion year-over-year, largely as a result of the effect of last year's spin-off of the directories business.
Special items in the first quarter 2007 consisted primarily of a $131 million after-tax extraordinary loss, or 5 cents per share, related to the tender offer implementing the nationalization of Compaia Annima Nacional Telfonos de Venezuela (CANTV).
Other special items were less than 1 cent per share: $9 million in after-tax charges for MCI merger integration costs and a $5 million net gain related to the sale of Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico. This sale closed on March 30, 2007, and Verizon received gross proceeds of approximately $980 million  $100 million of which was contributed to the Verizon Foundation.
Special items in the first quarter 2006 reflected costs of 4 cents per share, or 1 cent per share each for the early extinguishment of debt, employee relocations, merger integration costs and the cumulative effect of an accounting change.
Verizon News Release, page 9
 
Following are first-quarter 2007 highlights for Verizon's Wireless and Wireline business segments.
Wireless
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 10
 
Wireline
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 11
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 12
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a leader in delivering broadband and other wireline and wireless communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving 60.7 million customers nationwide. Verizon's Wireline operations include Verizon Business, which delivers innovative and seamless business solutions to customers around the world, and Verizon Telecom, which brings customers the benefits of converged communications, information and entertainment services over the nation's most advanced fiber-optic network. A Dow 30 company, Verizon has a diverse workforce of more than 238,000 and last year generated consolidated operating revenues of more than $88 billion. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
NOTE: This news release contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: materially adverse changes in economic and industry conditions and labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact, in the markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments; material changes in available technology, including disruption of our suppliers' provisioning of critical products and services; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the final results of federal and state regulatory proceedings concerning our provision of retail and wholesale services and judicial review of those results; the effects of competition in our markets; the timing, scope and financial impacts of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology; the ability of Verizon Wireless to continue to obtain sufficient spectrum resources; changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; the timing of the completion of the sale of our Latin American property; and the extent and timing of our ability to obtain revenue enhancements and cost savings following our business combination with MCI, Inc.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of Income Before Special Items
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Consolidated Statements of IncomeReconciliations
 
 
Footnote:
See www.verizon.com/investor for a reconciliation of other non-GAAP measures included in this Quarterly Bulletin.
Note:
Verizon Communications Inc.
Selected Financial and Operating Statistics
Footnote:
Verizon Communications Inc.
Consolidated Balance Sheets
Verizon Communications Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
Verizon Communications Inc.
Wireline  Selected Financial Results
Verizon Communications Inc.
Wireline  Selected Operating Statistics
Footnotes:
*Resale and UNE-P lines, including lines covered under commercial agreements.
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of special and non-recurring items. The company's chief decision makers exclude these items in assessing business unit performance, primarily due to their non-operational nature.
Intersegment transactions have not been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Verizon Wireless  Selected Financial Results
Verizon Communications Inc.
Verizon Wireless  Selected Operating Statistics
 
Footnotes:
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of special and non-recurring items. The company's chief decision makers exclude these items in assessing business unit performance, primarily due to their non-operational nature.
Intersegment transactions have not been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Pro Forma Combined Selected Financial Results Before Special Items
For the Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2005
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2005 by Quarter and Quarter Ended March 31, 2006
 
Footnotes:
 
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Wireline Unaudited Pro Forma Selected Financial Results
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Other Reconciliations
 
Wireline Pro Forma
 
 
 


