FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20080922190517.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On September 18, 2008, at the Goldman Sachs Communacopia Conference, Dennis Strigl, President and Chief Operating Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) provided an update of Verizon's initiatives to focus on its networks and strategic assets for sustained organic growth. Mr. Strigl stated that Verizon was continuing to invest in networks and new technologies that provide the platform for growth, innovation and productivity. He reiterated that capital spending in 2008 is expected to be less than in 2007 and that capital spending as a percent of revenue is expected to continue to decline in the future. He noted that Verizon is demonstrating confidence in its plan as it returns cash to shareholders through the 7% dividend increase announced on September 4, 2008. Mr. Strigl reviewed certain key aspects of the state of the business in Verizon's two business segments.
With respect to Verizon Wireless:
 
 
 
With respect to Verizon Wireline:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: This report contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: materially adverse changes in economic and industry conditions and labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact, in the markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments; material changes in available technology, including disruption of our suppliers' provisioning of critical products or services; the impact of natural or man-made disasters and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations; the final results of federal and state regulatory proceedings
concerning our provision of retail and wholesale services and judicial review of those results; the effects of competition in our markets; the timing, scope and financial impacts of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology; the ability of Verizon Wireless to continue to obtain sufficient spectrum resources; changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; and the ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 


