FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20080208171756.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
On February 7, 2008, the Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) approved the following amendments to Verizon's Bylaws, effective as of February 7, 2008. Amendments to Article III, Section 3.03 specify a procedure by which a special meeting of shareholders shall be called by the Board upon the request of shareholders owning twenty-five percent (25%) or more of Verizon's outstanding voting stock. Amendments to Article VI, Sections 6.01, 6.02 and 6.03 clarify procedures for the issuance and transfer of uncertificated securities and for the replacement of lost or stolen securities. This description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the amended Bylaws filed as an exhibit to this Report.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Attached as an exhibit is a press release dated February 7, 2008 issued by Verizon related to Verizon's announcement that its Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase of up to 100 million shares.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3b
 
 
 
 
SECTION 1.01. The registered office of the corporation shall be in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware until a different office is established by resolution of the board of directors and a certificate certifying the change is filed in the manner provided by statute.
Registered Office.
SECTION 1.02. The fiscal year of the corporation shall end on the 31st day of December in each year.
Fiscal Year.
SECTION 2.01. Whenever, under the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("GCL") or the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, notice is required to be given to any director or stockholder, it shall not be construed to require personal notice, but such notice may be given in writing, by mail or by telegram (with messenger service specified), telex or TWX (with answerback received) or courier service, charges prepaid, or by telephone or facsimile transmission to the address (or to the telex, TWX, facsimile or telephone number) of the person appearing on the books of the corporation, or in the case of directors, supplied to the corporation for the purpose of notice. If the notice is sent by mail, telegram or courier service, it shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail or with a telegraph office or courier service for delivery to that person or, in the case of telex or TWX, when dispatched, or in the case of facsimile transmission, when received.
Notice, What Constitutes.
SECTION 2.02. Notice of a regular meeting of the board of directors need not be given. Notice of every special meeting of the board of directors shall be given to each director in person or by telephone or in writing at least 24 hours (in the case of notice in person or by telephone, telex, TWX or facsimile transmission) or 48 hours (in the case of notice by telegram, courier service or express mail) or five days (in the case of notice by first class mail) before the time at which the meeting is to be held. Every such notice shall state the time and place of the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the board need be specified in a notice of the meeting.
Notice of Meetings of Board of Directors.
 
SECTION 2.03. Written notice of the place, date and hour of every meeting of the stockholders, whether annual or special, shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting. Every notice of a special meeting shall state the purpose or purposes thereof. If the notice is sent by mail, it shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail, postage prepaid, directed to the stockholder at the address of the stockholder as it appears on the records of the corporation.
Notice of Meetings of Stockholders.
SECTION 2.04.
Waivers of Notice.
(a) Whenever notice is required to be given under any provisions of the GCL or the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, a written waiver, signed by the person or persons entitled to the notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the stockholders, directors, or members of a committee of directors need be specified in any written waiver of notice of such meeting.
Written Waiver.
(b) Attendance of a person at a meeting, either in person or by proxy, shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened.
Waiver by Attendance.
SECTION 2.05.
Exception to Requirements of Notice.
(a) Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of the GCL or the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, to any person with whom communication is unlawful, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required and there shall be no duty to apply to any governmental authority or agency for a license or permit to give such notice to such person. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to any such person with whom communication is unlawful shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given.
General Rule.
(b) Whenever notice is required to be given, under any provision of the GCL or the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, to any stockholder to whom (i) notice of two consecutive annual meetings, and all notices of meetings or of the taking of action by written consent without a meeting to such person during the period between such two consecutive annual meetings, or (ii) all, and at least two, payments (if sent by first class mail) of dividends or interest on securities during a 12 month period, have been mailed addressed to such person at his address as shown on the records of the corporation and have been returned undeliverable, the giving of such notice to such person shall not be required. Any action or meeting which shall be taken or held without notice to such person shall have the same force and effect as if such notice had been duly given. If any such person shall deliver to the corporation a written notice setting forth the person's then current address, the requirement that notice be given to such person shall be reinstated.
Stockholders Without Forwarding Addresses.
 
SECTION 2.06. One or more directors may participate in a meeting of the board, or of a committee of the board, by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this section shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.
Conference Telephone Meetings.
SECTION 3.01. All meetings of the stockholders of the corporation shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as shall be designated by the board of directors in the notice of such meeting (or by the Chairman calling a meeting pursuant to Section 3.03).
Place of Meeting.
SECTION 3.02. The board of directors may fix and designate the date and time of the annual meeting of the stockholders. At said meeting the stockholders then entitled to vote shall elect directors and shall transact such other business as may properly be brought before the meeting.
Annual Meeting.
SECTION 3.03.
Special Meetings.
(a) A special meeting of the stockholders of the corporation may be called at any time by the chairman of the board or a majority of the board of directors.
(b) A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the board of directors upon written request to the secretary of one or more record holders owning in the aggregate not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of shares of stock of the corporation entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the special meeting. A request to the secretary shall be signed by each stockholder, or a duly authorized agent of such stockholder, requesting the special meeting and shall include: (1) a brief description of each matter of business to be brought before the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting, (2) the name and record address of each stockholder requesting the special meeting, (3) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are owned by each such stockholder, including shares beneficially owned and shares held of record, (4) any material interest of each such stockholder in the business to be brought before the special meeting and (5) if a purpose of the special meeting is to elect directors, the information set forth in Section 4.12(c) of these Bylaws with respect to any persons nominated for election to the board of directors.
(c) A special meeting shall be held at such date, time and place within or without the state of Delaware as may be fixed by the board of directors; provided, however, that the date of any special meeting to be called pursuant to Section 3.03(b) shall be not more than ninety (90) days after the request to call the special meeting is received by the secretary. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a special meeting requested by stockholders shall not be held if (i) the stated business to be brought before the special meeting is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law, or (ii) the board of directors has called or calls for an annual or special meeting of
 
stockholders to be held within ninety (90) days after the secretary receives the request for the special meeting and the board of directors determines in good faith that the business of such meeting includes the business described in the request.
(d) A stockholder may revoke a request for a special meeting at any time by written revocation delivered to the secretary. If, following such revocation, the stockholders requesting the special meeting hold less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of shares of stock entitled to vote on the matter to be brought before the meeting, the board of directors, in its discretion, may cancel the special meeting.
(e) Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting.
SECTION 3.04.
Quorum, Required Vote and Adjournment.
(a) The holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders except as otherwise provided by the GCL, by the certificate of incorporation or by these Bylaws. If a quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present or represented. At any such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, the corporation may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting. If the adjournment is for more than 30 days, or if after the adjournment a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the meeting.
Quorum.
(b)
Required Vote.
(1) At a meeting for the election of directors, each director shall be elected by a majority of the votes cast with respect to that director; provided that, if the number of nominees exceeds the number of directorships to be filled, the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this paragraph, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" must exceed the number of shares voted "against" with respect to that director's election. If a nominee for director who is not an incumbent director does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the nominee shall not be elected. If an incumbent director who is standing for re-election does not receive a majority of the votes cast, the committee of the board authorized to nominate candidates for election to the board will make a recommendation to the board on whether to accept the director's resignation, and on whether other action should be taken. The director will not participate in the committee's recommendation or the board's decision. The independent members of the board will consider the committee's recommendation and publicly disclose the board's decision and the basis for that decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the final election results. If less than two members of the committee are elected at a meeting for the election of directors, the independent members of the Board who were elected shall consider and act upon the tendered resignation. If
Election of Directors.
 
for any reason none of the nominees is elected at a meeting for the election of directors, the incumbent directors shall call a special meeting of the stockholders as soon thereafter as convenient for the purpose of electing a board of directors.
(2) In all matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote and voting thereon shall be the act of the stockholders, unless the question is one upon which, by express provision of the applicable statute, the certificate of incorporation or these Bylaws, a different vote is required, in which case such express provision shall govern and control the decision of the question. The stockholders present in person or by proxy at a duly organized meeting can continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
Other Matters.
(c) Nominations by stockholders of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may be made at an annual meeting in compliance with Section 4.12 hereof. The proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders at an annual meeting of stockholders may be made (i) pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting, (ii) by or at the direction of the board of directors, or (iii) by any stockholder of the corporation pursuant to timely notice in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days prior to the anniversary date of the prior year's annual meeting. Such stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth (a) as to the stockholder giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any on whose behalf the proposal is made, (i) their name and record address, and (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned by each of them, and (b) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder giving notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation's notice of meeting. Only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
Stockholder Proposals.
(d) The chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any proposal made at the meeting was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures and, in such event, the proposal shall be disregarded. Any decision by the chairman of the meeting shall be conclusive and binding upon all stockholders of the corporation for any purpose.
SECTION 3.05. At every meeting of the stockholders, the chairman of the board, if there be one, or in the case of a vacancy in the office or absence of the chairman of the board, one of the following persons present in the order stated: the president, the vice chairman, if one has been appointed, a chairman designated by the board of directors or a chairman chosen by the stockholders entitled to cast a majority of the votes which all stockholders present in person or by proxy are entitled to cast, shall act as chairman, and the secretary, or, in the absence of the secretary, an assistant secretary, or in the absence of the secretary and the assistant secretaries, a person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary.
Organization.
 
SECTION 3.06.
Voting.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in the certificate of incorporation, each stockholder shall be entitled to one vote, in person or by proxy, for each share of capital stock having voting power held by such stockholder.
General Rule.
(b)
Voting and Other Action by Proxy.
(1) A stockholder may execute a writing authorizing another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy. Such execution may be accomplished by the stockholder or the authorized officer, director, employee or agent of the stockholder signing such writing or causing his or her signature to be affixed to such writing by any reasonable means including, but not limited to, by facsimile signature. A stockholder may authorize another person or persons to act for the stockholder as proxy by transmitting or authorizing the transmission of a telegram, cablegram, or other means of electronic transmission to the person who will be the holder of the proxy or to a proxy solicitation firm, proxy support service organization or like agent duly authorized by the person who will be the holder of the proxy to receive such transmission if such telegram, cablegram or other means of electronic transmission sets forth or is submitted with information from which it can be determined that the telegram, cablegram or other electronic transmission was authorized by the stockholder.
(2) No proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.
(3) A duly executed proxy shall be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only so long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power. A proxy may be made irrevocable regardless of whether the interest with which it is coupled is an interest in the stock itself or an interest in the corporation generally.
SECTION 3.07. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting. The list shall be arranged in alphabetical order, showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held, which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting, or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
Voting Lists.
 
SECTION 3.08.
Inspectors of Election.
(a) All elections of directors shall be by written ballot; the vote upon any other matter need not be by ballot. In advance of any meeting of stockholders the board of directors may appoint one or more inspectors, who need not be stockholders, to act at the meeting and to make a written report thereof. The board of directors may designate one or more persons as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the person presiding at the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the person's best ability.
Appointment.
(b) The inspectors shall ascertain the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, shall determine the shares represented at the meeting and the validity of proxies and ballots, shall count all votes and ballots, shall determine and retain for a reasonable period a record of the disposition of any challenges made to any determination by the inspectors, and shall certify their determination of the number of shares represented at the meeting and their count of all votes and ballots. The inspectors may appoint or retain other persons or entities to assist the inspectors in the performance of the duties of the inspectors.
Duties.
(c) The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting. No ballot, proxies or votes, nor any revocations thereof or changes thereto, shall be accepted by the inspectors after the closing of the polls unless the Court of Chancery upon application by a stockholder shall determine otherwise.
Polls.
(d) In determining the validity and counting of proxies and ballots, the inspectors shall be limited to an examination of the proxies, any envelopes submitted with those proxies, any information transmitted in accordance with Section 3.06, ballots and the regular books and records of the corporation, except that the inspectors may consider other reliable information for the limited purpose of reconciling proxies and ballots submitted by or on behalf of banks, brokers, their nominees or similar persons which represent more votes than the holder of a proxy is authorized by the record owner to cast or more votes than the stockholder holds of record. If the inspectors consider other reliable information for the limited purpose permitted herein, the inspectors at the time they make their certification pursuant to subsection (b) shall specify the precise information considered by them including the person or persons from whom they obtained the information, when the information was obtained, the means by which the information was obtained and the basis for the inspectors' belief that such information is accurate and reliable.
Reconciliation of Proxies and Ballots.
 
SECTION 4.01. All powers vested by law in the corporation shall be exercised by or under the authority of, and the business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of, the board of directors.
Powers.
SECTION 4.02. Subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, the board of directors shall consist of such number of directors as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by a vote of a majority of the entire board of directors.
Number.
SECTION 4.03. Directors of the corporation shall hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders and until their successors shall have been elected and qualified, except in the event of death, resignation or removal.
Term of Office.
SECTION 4.04.
Vacancies.
(a) Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, though less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director, and a director so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election of the class for which such director shall have been elected and until a successor is duly elected and qualified. If there are no directors in office, then an election of directors may be held in the manner provided by statute.
(b) Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
(c) If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office shall constitute less than a majority of the entire board (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten percent of the total number of the shares at the time outstanding having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorship, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office.
SECTION 4.05.
Resignations.
(a) Any director may resign at any time upon written notice to the chairman, president or secretary of the corporation. A resignation is effective when delivered unless the resignation specifies a later effective date or an effective date determined upon the happening of an event or events.
 
(b) Each director who consents to stand for re-election shall tender an irrevocable resignation in advance of the meeting for the election of directors. Such resignation will be effective if, pursuant to Section 3.04(b)(1) of these Bylaws, (a) the director does not receive the required vote at the next meeting for the election of directors, and (b) the Board accepts the resignation.
SECTION 4.06. Meetings of the board of directors, both regular and special, shall be held at such place within or without the State of Delaware as the board of directors may from time to time determine, or as may be designated in the notice of the meeting.
Place of Meeting.
SECTION 4.07. Regular meetings of the board of directors shall be held without notice at such time and place as shall be designated from time to time by resolution of the board of directors.
Regular Meetings.
SECTION 4.08. Special meetings of the board of directors shall be held whenever called by the chairman or by three or more of the directors.
Special Meetings.
SECTION 4.09.
Quorum, Manner of Acting and Adjournment.
(a) At all meetings of the board one-third of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the board of directors, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by the GCL or by the certificate of incorporation. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the board of directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present.
General Rule.
(b) Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation, any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the board of directors may be taken without a meeting, if all members of the board consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the board.
Unanimous Written Consent.
SECTION 4.10.
Committees of the Board.
(a) The board of directors may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the entire board, establish one or more other committees, each committee to consist of one or more directors. The board may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee and the alternate or alternates, if any, designated for such member, the member or members of the committee present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another director to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.
Establishment.
 
(b) Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution establishing such committee, shall have and may exercise all the power and authority of the board of directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have such power or authority in reference to amending the certificate of incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the board of directors as provided in Section 151(a) of the GCL, fix the designation and any of the preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or the conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation or fix the number of shares of any series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease of shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation under Section 251, 252, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258, 263, or 264 of the GCL, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation's property and assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the Bylaws of the corporation. Such committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the board of directors. Each committee so formed shall keep regular minutes of its meetings and report the same to the board of directors when required.
Powers.
(c) The term "board of directors" or "board," when used in any provision of these Bylaws relating to the organization or procedures of or the manner of taking action by the board of directors, shall be construed to include and refer to any committee of the board.
Committee Procedures.
SECTION 4.11. Unless otherwise restricted by the certificate of incorporation, the board of directors shall have the authority to fix the compensation of directors. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the board of directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the board of directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of special or standing committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings.
Compensation of Directors.
SECTION 4.12.
Qualifications and Election of Directors.
(a) All directors of the corporation shall be natural persons of full age, but need not be residents of Delaware or stockholders of the corporation. Except in the case of vacancies, directors shall be elected by the stockholders. If directors of more than one class are to be elected, each class of directors to be elected at the meeting shall be nominated and elected separately. A director shall retire from the board at the board meeting next following his or her 72 birthday. The term of office of any director elected or appointed in conformity with the preceding sentence shall continue (to the extent provided in the certificate of incorporation and these Bylaws) after such director reaches 72 years of age.
nd
(b) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of stockholders by or at the direction of the board of directors.
 
(c) Nominations of persons for election to the board of directors of the corporation may also be made at the meeting by any stockholder of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 4.12 (c) and (d). Such nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the board, shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than 90 days prior to the anniversary date of the prior year's meeting for the election of directors. Such stockholder's notice to the secretary shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director, (i) the name, age, business address and residence address of the person, (ii) the principal occupation or employment of the person, (iii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the person, and (iv) any other information relating to the person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations for proxies for election of directors pursuant to the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended; and (b) as to the stockholder giving the notice (i) the name and record address of the stockholder and (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the stockholder. The corporation may require any proposed nominee to furnish such other information as may reasonably be required by the corporation to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the corporation. No person shall be eligible for election as a director by the stockholders of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth herein.
(d) The chairman of the meeting may, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that any nomination made at the meeting was not made in accordance with the foregoing procedures and, in such event, the nomination shall be disregarded. Any decision by the chairman of the meeting shall be conclusive and binding upon all stockholders of the corporation for any purpose.
SECTION 4.13. Unless otherwise ordered by the board of directors, each of the chairman of the board, the president, and the principal accounting officer (as identified in the corporation's most recent report filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission) shall have full power and authority, on behalf of the corporation, to attend and to act and vote, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of the stockholders of any company in which the corporation may hold stock, and at any such meeting shall possess and may exercise any and all of the rights and powers incident to the ownership of such stock which, as the owner thereof, the corporation might have possessed and exercised if present. The board of directors, by resolution adopted from time to time, may confer like powers upon any other person or persons.
Voting of Stock.
SECTION 4.14. Each of the chairman of the board, the president, and the principal accounting officer shall have the power to endorse and deliver for sale, assignment or transfer certificates for stock, bonds or other securities, registered in the name of or belonging to the corporation, whether issued by the corporation or by any other corporation, government, state or municipality or agency thereof; and the board of directors from time to time may confer like power upon any other officer, agent or person by resolution adopted from time to time. Every such endorsement shall be countersigned by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer.
Endorsement of Securities for Transfer.
 
SECTION 5.01. The corporation shall have such officers with such titles and duties as shall be specified by resolution of the board of directors. Any number of offices may be held by the same person. Officers may, but need not, be directors or stockholders of the corporation. The board of directors may elect from among the members of the board a chairman of the board and one or more vice chairmen of the board.
Number, Qualifications and Designation.
SECTION 5.02. The officers of the corporation, except those elected by delegated authority pursuant to Section 5.03 of this Article, shall be elected annually by the board of directors, and each such officer shall hold office for a term of one year and until a successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. Any officer may resign at any time upon written notice to the corporation.
Election and Term of Office.
SECTION 5.03. Each officer of the corporation shall have the power to appoint subordinate officers (including without limitation one or more assistant secretaries and one or more assistant treasurers) and to retain or appoint employees or other agents, or committees thereof, and to prescribe the authority and duties of such subordinate officers, committees, employees or other agents.
Subordinate Officers, Committees and Agents.
SECTION 5.04. No officer of the corporation need provide a bond to guarantee the faithful discharge of the officer's duties unless the board of directors shall by resolution so require a bond in which event such officer shall give the corporation a bond (which shall be renewed if and as required) in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the board of directors for the faithful performance of the duties of office.
Officers' Bonds.
SECTION 5.05. The salaries of the officers and agents of the corporation elected by the board of directors shall be fixed from time to time by the board of directors.
Salaries.
SECTION 6.01.
Form and Issuance.
(a) The shares of the corporation shall be represented by certificates unless the board of directors shall by resolution provide that some or all of any class or series of stock shall be uncertificated shares. Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until the certificate is surrendered to the corporation. Every holder of stock represented by certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the corporation by, the chairman or vice chairman of the board of directors, or the president or vice president, and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary, representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.
Issuance.
 
(b) Stock certificates of the corporation shall be in such form as approved by the board of directors or the secretary. The stock record books and the blank stock certificate books shall be kept by the secretary or by any agency designated by the board of directors for that purpose. The stock certificates of the corporation shall be numbered and registered in the stock ledger and transfer books of the corporation as they are issued.
Form and Records.
(c) Any of or all the signatures upon the stock certificates of the corporation may be a facsimile. In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed, or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon, any share certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before the certificate is issued, it may be issued with the same effect as if the signatory were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of its issue.
Signatures.
SECTION 6.02. Transfers of shares shall be made on the share register or transfer books of the corporation and (1) in the case of certificated shares, upon surrender of the certificate therefor, endorsed by the person named in the certificate or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing or (2) in the case of uncertificated shares, upon receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered holder of the shares or by an attorney lawfully constituted in writing. No transfer shall be made which would be inconsistent with the provisions of applicable law.
Transfer.
SECTION 6.03. The board of directors, the secretary or any transfer agent may direct a new certificate of stock or uncertificated shares to be issued in place of any certificate theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be lost, stolen or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, the board of directors, the secretary or any transfer agent may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates, or the legal representative of the owner, to give the corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify against any claim that may be made against the corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate or uncertificated shares.
Lost, Stolen, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates.
SECTION 6.04. The corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends, and to vote as such owner, and to hold liable for calls and assessments a person registered on its books as the owner of shares, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Delaware.
Record Holder of Shares.
SECTION 6.05.
Determination of Stockholders of Record.
(a) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any
Meetings of Stockholders.
 
adjournment thereof, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than ten days before the date of such meeting. If no record date is fixed by the board of directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the board of directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
(b) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors, and which date shall not be more than ten days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the board of directors. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the board of directors is required by the GCL, shall be the first date on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. Delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be by hand or by certified or registered mail, return receipt requested. If no record date has been fixed by the board of directors and prior action by the board of directors is required by the GCL, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
Consent of Stockholders.
(c) In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights of the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock, or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the board of directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted, and which record date shall be not more than 60 days prior to such action. If no record date is fixed, the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose shall be at the close of business on the day on which the board of directors adopts the resolution relating thereto.
Dividends.
SECTION 7.01. Subject to the restrictions contained in the GCL and any restrictions contained in the certificate of incorporation, the board of directors may declare and pay dividends upon the shares of capital stock of the corporation.
Dividends.
SECTION 7.02. Except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws, the board of directors may authorize any officer or officers including the chairman and vice
Contracts.
 
chairman of the board of directors, or any agent or agents, to enter into any contract or to execute or deliver any instrument on behalf of the corporation and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances. Any officer so authorized may, unless the authorizing resolution otherwise provides, delegate such authority to one or more subordinate officers, employees or agents, and such delegation may provide for further delegation.
SECTION 7.03. The corporation shall have a corporate seal, which shall have inscribed thereon the name of the corporation, the year of its organization and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced.
Corporate Seal.
SECTION 7.04. All checks, notes and evidences of indebtedness of the corporation shall be signed by such person or persons as the board of directors may from time to time designate.
Checks, Notes, Etc.
SECTION 7.05.
Corporate Records.
(a) Every stockholder shall, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have a right to examine, in person or by agent or attorney, during the usual hours for business, for any proper purpose, the stock ledger, list of stockholders, books or records of account, and records of the proceedings of the stockholders and directors of the corporation, and to make copies or extracts therefrom. A proper purpose shall mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder. In every instance where an attorney or other agent shall be the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath shall be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing which authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder. The demand under oath shall be directed to the corporation at its registered office in Delaware or at its principal place of business. Where the stockholder seeks to inspect the books and records of the corporation, other than its stock ledger or list of stockholders, the stockholder shall first establish (1) that the stockholder has complied with the provisions of this section respecting the form and manner of making demand for inspection of such documents; and (2) that the inspection sought is for a proper purpose. Where the stockholder seeks to inspect the stock ledger or list of stockholders of the corporation and has complied with the provisions of this section respecting the form and manner of making demand for inspection of such documents, the burden of proof shall be upon the corporation to establish that the inspection sought is for an improper purpose.
Examination by Stockholders.
(b) Any director shall have the right to examine the corporation's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to the person's position as a director.
Examination by Directors.
SECTION 7.06.
Amendment of Bylaws.
(a) Except as otherwise provided herein, these Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, or new Bylaws may be adopted, either by (1) the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote and voting thereon at a duly organized meeting of stockholders called for that purpose, or (2) the affirmative vote of a majority of the board of directors.
 
(b) Any amendment or repeal of, or the adoption of any Bylaw inconsistent with, the provisions contained in Section 3.04(b)(1), Section 4.05(b) or this Section 7.06(b) shall require the affirmative vote of the majority of shares present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote and voting thereon at a duly organized meeting of stockholders called for that purpose.
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized the corporation to repurchase up to 100 million shares of its common stock.
NEW YORK 
The board also determined that no additional shares may be acquired under a previously approved program to repurchase up to 100 million shares. Under the previous program, which was due to end Feb. 28, 2010, approval remained to purchase approximately 30 million shares.
Approximately 2.9 billion shares of Verizon common stock are outstanding.
Under the plan approved today by the board, Verizon's senior officers have the option to repurchase shares for the corporation over time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, with the amount and timing of repurchases depending on market conditions and corporate needs. The company may also, from time to time, enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of its shares under this authorization.
The authorization to repurchase shares terminates when the aggregate number of shares repurchased reaches 100 million or at the close of business on Feb. 28, 2011, whichever is earlier.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a leader in delivering broadband and other wireline and wireless communication innovations to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving nearly 66 million customers nationwide. Verizon's Wireline operations include Verizon Business, which delivers innovative and seamless business solutions to customers around the world, and Verizon Telecom, which brings customers the benefits of converged communications, information and entertainment services over the nation's most advanced fiber-optic network. A Dow 30 company, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of nearly 235,000 and last year generated consolidated operating revenues of $93.5 billion. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


