FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20090904134309.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 3, 2009, Dennis F. Strigl, President and Chief Operating Officer of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon), announced his plans to retire, effective by the end of 2009.
 
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release dated September 3, 2009 issued by Verizon containing information pertaining to Verizon's September 3, 2009 dividend declaration.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
The Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ) today declared a quarterly dividend of 47.5 cents per outstanding share, an increase of 1.5 cents per share, or 3.3 percent, from the previous quarter. On an annual basis, this increases Verizon's dividend 6 cents per share, from $1.84 to $1.90 per share.
NEW YORK 
The quarterly dividend is payable on Nov. 2, 2009, to Verizon Communications shareowners of record at the close of business on Oct. 9, 2009.
"This increase reflects the strength of our cash flow and balance sheet," said Ivan Seidenberg, Verizon chairman and chief executive officer. "It demonstrates the Board's commitment to return cash to our shareholders while continuing to invest in the long-term growth of our business."
This is the third consecutive year that Verizon's Board of Directors has approved a quarterly dividend increase in September.
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
Verizon has approximately 2.4 million shareowners and approximately 2.8 billion shares of common stock outstanding. The company made $2.6 billion in dividend payments through the first half of 2009.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving more than 87 million customers nationwide. Verizon's Wireline operations provide converged communications, information and entertainment services over the nation's most advanced fiber-optic network. Wireline also includes Verizon Business, which delivers innovative and seamless business solutions to customers around the world. A Dow 30 company, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 235,000 and last year generated consolidated operating revenues of more than $97 billion. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high-quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


