FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20100422075412.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[    ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[    ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[    ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Attached as an exhibit hereto is a press release and financial tables dated April 22, 2010 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon).
Non-GAAP Measures
Verizon's press release and financial tables include financial information prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) as well as non-GAAP financial information. The non-GAAP financial information presented may be determined or calculated differently by other companies.
Verizon Wireless Segment earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) and Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin (EBITDA margin) are non-GAAP measures and do not purport to be alternatives to GAAP items as measures of operating performance. Management believes that these measures are useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating operating profitability on a more variable cost basis as they exclude the depreciation and amortization expenses related primarily to capital expenditures and acquisitions that occurred in prior years, as well as in evaluating operating performance in relation to Verizon's competitors. Segment EBITDA margin is presented along with the corresponding operating income margin so as not to imply that more emphasis should be placed on it than the corresponding GAAP measure.
Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA is calculated by adding back depreciation and amortization expenses to Wireless operating income, and Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin is calculated by dividing Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA by Verizon Wireless service revenues. Verizon Wireless Segment EBITDA service margin utilizes service revenues rather than total revenues. Service revenues exclude primarily equipment revenues (as well as other non-service revenues) in order to capture the impact of providing service to the wireless customer base on an ongoing basis.
Verizon Wireless cash expense per customer is an additional non-GAAP financial measure that management believes is also useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating current operating expense efficiency, as well as in evaluating operating performance in relation to Verizon Wireless's competitors. Verizon Wireless cash expense per customer is calculated by subtracting equipment and other revenue from Verizon Wireless cost of sales and services and selling, general and administrative expenses and dividing the result by average customers during the period. As a result, cash expense per customer reflects equipment and other revenue on a net cost basis in order to illustrate the impact of the net cost of selling handsets and other equipment to customers and other similar transactions with customers.
Free cash flow is an additional non-GAAP financial measure that management believes is useful to investors and other users of Verizon's financial information in evaluating cash available to pay debt and dividends. Free cash flow is calculated by subtracting capital expenditures from cash flow from operations.
It is management's intent to provide non-GAAP financial information to enhance the understanding of Verizon's GAAP financial information and it should be considered by the reader in addition to, but not instead of, the financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
Consolidated
 
 
Wireless
 
 
Wireline
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ:VZ) today reported continued strong cash flow growth in the first quarter of 2010, with steady customer and revenue gains for FiOS and Verizon Wireless services, and growth in sales of strategic services and equipment in business markets.
NEW YORK 
First-quarter 2010 earnings were 14 cents in diluted earnings per share (EPS), compared with EPS of 58 cents in first-quarter 2009. First-quarter 2010 results include 42 cents per share in non-operational charges, the largest of which is a previously announced reduction in tax benefits related to retiree health care.
"Our first-quarter results were in line with our expectations, with solid growth in all strategic areas," said Chairman and CEO Ivan Seidenberg. "Customer demand for broadband, such as a growing demand for wireless data, has improved revenue trends, and we are beginning to see signs of economic recovery, particularly in business markets.
"During the economic downturn, we continued to expand and invest in wireless data, FiOS and our global network," he said. "Now we have the opportunity to build momentum in these strategic areas and stimulate a new generation of industry growth. Our first-quarter 2010 results show good customer and revenue growth in FiOS and at Verizon Wireless, cost-reduction initiatives that are on track, and a disciplined approach to capital investment  all resulting in continued strong cash flow growth."
Verizon's total operating revenues were $26.9 billion in the first quarter of 2010, an increase of 1.2 percent compared with the first quarter of 2009. Net income attributable to
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
Verizon was $0.4 billion in the first quarter of 2010, compared with $1.6 billion in the first quarter of 2009.
Non-operational items that negatively impacted first-quarter 2010 net income were $962 million, or 34 cents per share, for reduced tax benefits related to retiree health care; 4 cents per share for network, software and other activities required for facilities to function as a separate company, pending a previously announced spinoff of non-strategic wireline access lines; 3 cents per share related to pension settlement losses resulting from previously announced separation plans; and 1 cent per share in merger integration costs primarily related to the acquisition of Alltel in January 2009. The majority of these items were non-cash.
Cash flow from operations totaled $7.1 billion in the first quarter of 2010, up 7.5 percent from the first quarter of 2009.
Capital expenditures totaled $3.5 billion in the first quarter of 2010. Although this was down 6.8 percent from the first quarter of 2009, Verizon reiterated its guidance that total 2010 capital spending will range from $16.8 billion to $17.2 billion.
Free cash flow (non-GAAP; cash flow from operations less capital expenditures) totaled $3.7 billion in the first quarter of 2010, a 25.6 percent year-over-year increase.
Verizon Wireless delivered sustained high margins and solid customer additions, and strong data revenue growth. In the first quarter of 2010:
 
Verizon News Release, page 4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 5
 
Customer demand remained strong for broadband and video services provided over Verizon's domestic wireline network and for advanced communications and related business services provided over Verizon's global IP (Internet Protocol) network. In the first quarter of 2010:
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 6
 
Wireless
 
 
 
 
 
 
Verizon News Release, page 7
 
Wireline
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE: Comparisons are year over year unless otherwise noted. See the accompanying schedules and for reconciliations to generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for non-GAAP financial measures cited in this news release.
www.verizon.com/investor
Verizon News Release, page 8
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving nearly 93 million customers nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers innovative, seamless business solutions to customers around the world. A Dow 30 company, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 217,000 and last year generated consolidated revenues of more than $107 billion. For more information, visit .
www.verizon.com
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high-quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
NOTE: This document contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the effects of adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies; the effects of competition in our markets; materially adverse changes in labor matters, including workforce levels and labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact, in the markets served by us or by companies in which we have substantial investments; the effect of material changes in available technology; any disruption of our suppliers' provisioning of critical products or services; significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; the impact of natural or man-made disasters or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing; any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any loss of or inability to renew wireless licenses, and the final results of federal and state regulatory proceedings and judicial review of those results; the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of fiber-to-the-premises broadband technology; changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; our ability to successfully integrate Alltel Corporation into Verizon Wireless' business and achieve anticipated benefits of the acquisition; and the inability to implement our business strategies.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
(dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
 
Footnotes:
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
(dollars in millions)
 
The unaudited consolidated balance sheets are based on preliminary information.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
(dollars in millions)
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Selected Financial and Operating Statistics
 
Footnote:
 
Verizon Communications Inc.
Verizon Wireless  Selected Financial Results
(dollars in millions)
 
Footnotes:
 
 
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of other non-operational items as the Company's chief decision maker excludes these items in assessing business unit performance.
Intersegment transactions have not been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Wireline  Selected Financial Results
(dollars in millions)
Footnotes:
The segment financial results above are adjusted to exclude the effects of other non-operational items as the Company's chief decision maker excludes these items in assessing business unit performance.
Intersegment transactions have not been eliminated.
Certain reclassifications have been made, where appropriate, to reflect comparable operating results.
Verizon Communications Inc.
Reconciliations - Free Cash Flow
 
Cash expense per customer may not add due to rounding.


