FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20110203171044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 is a press release dated February 3, 2011 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) related to Verizon's announcement that its Board of Directors has authorized a common stock repurchase program for up to 100 million shares.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ: VZ) announced today that its Board of Directors has authorized the corporation to repurchase up to 100 million shares of its common stock.
NEW YORK 
The board also determined that no additional shares may be acquired under a previously approved program to repurchase up to 100 million shares. Under the previous program, which was due to end Feb. 28, 2011, approval remained to purchase approximately 60 million shares.
Approximately 2.8 billion shares of Verizon common stock are outstanding.
Under the plan approved today by the board, Verizon's senior officers have the option to repurchase shares for the corporation over time in the open market, in privately negotiated transactions or otherwise, with the amount and timing of repurchases depending on market conditions and corporate needs. The company may also, from time to time, enter into Rule 10b5-1 plans to facilitate repurchases of its shares under this authorization.
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
The authorization to repurchase shares terminates when the aggregate number of shares repurchased reaches 100 million or at the close of business on Feb. 28, 2014, whichever is earlier.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, NASDAQ:VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to mass market, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, serving 94.1 million customers nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers innovative, seamless business solutions to customers around the world. A Dow 30 company, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 194,000 and last year generated consolidated revenues of $106.6 billion. For more information, visit .
www.verizon.com
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at. To receive news releases by e-mail, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


