FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20111206170734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 1, 2011, the Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) accepted the resignation of Ivan G. Seidenberg from the Board and as Chairman of Verizon, effective at the close of business on December 31, 2011, and elected Lowell C. McAdam, President and Chief Executive Officer of Verizon, as Chairman of the Board, effective at the close of business on December 31, 2011.
On December 1, 2011, the Verizon Board of Directors elected Melanie L. Healey, Group President  North America and Global Hyper, Super, Mass Channel at Procter & Gamble Company, as a new Director effective immediately. As a Director, Ms. Healey will participate in the compensation program applicable to all non-employee directors, which is described under the heading "Non-Employee Director Compensation" in Verizon's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 21, 2011. Ms. Healey has not yet been named to a Board committee.
On December 1, 2011, Verizon determined that it will reorganize its shared services operations to better align functions within the organization. As a result of this realignment, effective at the close of business on December 31, 2011, Virginia P. Ruesterholz, Verizon's Executive Vice President and President  Verizon Services Operations, will no longer be responsible for Verizon's shared services operations. Ms. Ruesterholz will continue to report to Mr. McAdam and will oversee certain strategic initiatives.
A press release announcing the Board elections described above is filed as Exhibit 99 hereto and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
NEWS RELEASE
 
The Board of Directors of Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq:VZ) today elected Verizon President and CEO Lowell C. McAdam as chairman, effective Jan. 1, 2012. In addition, Melanie L. Healey, group president for North America at Procter & Gamble Co. (NYSE:PG), was elected as a new member of Verizon's board, effective immediately.
NEW YORK 
McAdam's chairmanship will begin following the retirement of Ivan G. Seidenberg as Verizon's chairman on Dec. 31.
Sandra O. Moose, presiding director of Verizon's board, said: "The board's decision to name Lowell as chairman is a reflection of his comprehensive understanding of Verizon's operations and the fast-moving and ever-evolving communications industry. He is uniquely qualified to step into this role, having spent his entire career as an industry leader creating
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
growth and value for shareholders. As chairman, Lowell will provide insight and expertise as he oversees the functioning of the board."
McAdam has been president and CEO of Verizon since Aug. 1, with responsibility for all business operations at Verizon, including the strategic direction of the company's products and technologies. He has served on the board of Verizon since March 2011 and on the board of Verizon Wireless since 2003, chairing the Verizon Wireless board since September 2010. He was president and CEO of Verizon Wireless until October 2010, when he became president and COO of Verizon.
Healey serves as group president for North America at Procter & Gamble. Before this, she had been president of P&G's global feminine care business since 2005, adding responsibilities for global health care brands in 2007.
Moose said: "Melanie brings to Verizon's board an extensive background in consumer goods, marketing and international operations. With first-hand experience in several global markets and a wealth of knowledge about delighting consumers with great products, she will be a superb advisor and asset to Verizon. We look forward to her active participation on the board."
Brazilian by birth, Healey began her career in marketing at S.C. Johnson & Sons in 1983 and moved to Johnson & Johnson in 1987.
She joined P&G Brazil as a brand manager in 1990 and over the next eight years managed brands across categories as diverse as baby care, health care, hair care, personal cleansing and fabric care during assignments in Brazil, Mexico and Venezuela. In 1998 she was named general manager of the feminine care business in Latin America. In 2001 she became vice president and general manager of the feminine care business for North America, moving to P&G's headquarters in Cincinnati.
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
In addition to her current business responsibilities, Healey is the leader of P&G North America's Diversity and Inclusion Team, as well as the Global Corporate Women's Leadership Team. She serves as a member of Cincinnati-Northern Kentucky International Airport Board, and she has been a director of Bacardi & Co. Limited since 2008.
Since 2007, she has been recognized in multiple business-leadership lists, including Fortune magazine's Top 50 Most Powerful Women in Business, Forbes magazine's The 100 Most Powerful Women and the Wall Street Journal's The 50 Women to Watch.
Healey has a bachelor's degree in business administration from the University of Richmond, where she is a member of the Board of Trustees.
Seidenberg, who turns 65 this month, had previously announced his intention to retire by year-end, after stepping down from the CEO post earlier this year and completing the company's CEO succession process under way since 2010. As chairman, Seidenberg has continued to assist in the transition.
Following Seidenberg's retirement, Verizon will have 12 board members.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network, with more than 107 million total connections nationwide. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries, including all of the Fortune 500. A Dow 30 company with $106.6 billion in 2010 revenues, Verizon employs a diverse workforce of more than 195,000. For more information, visit
www.verizon.com.
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high-quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by email, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news


