FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20110725170638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On a July 22, 2011 conference call with the investment community, Fran C. Shammo, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Lowell McAdam, President and Chief Operating Officer, of Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon), discussed Verizon's second quarter 2011 results and its outlook for the remainder of 2011 and beyond.
- Verizon expects that year-over-year growth in Wireless retail postpaid phone ARPU (average monthly service revenue per user) from smartphones and feature phones will improve from the second quarter 2011 year-over-year growth rate of 3.2 percent.
- At the end of the second quarter of 2011, Verizon Wireless net debt totaled $7.3 billion.
- Verizon expects to achieve 50 percent smartphone penetration by the end of the first quarter of 2012. This does not impact previous revenue growth guidance for 2011 of between 4 and 8 percent or earnings growth guidance for 2011 of between 5 and 8 percent off an adjusted base of $2.08 of earnings per share in 2010.
The information provided pursuant to this Item 7.01 is "furnished" and shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
NOTE: This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: the effects of adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies; the effects of competition in our markets; materially adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact; the effect of material changes in available technology; any disruption of our key suppliers' provisioning of products or services; significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; the impact of natural disasters, terrorist attacks, breaches of network or information technology security or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing; any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks; the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of broadband technology; changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and the inability to implement our business strategies.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 


