FILE:VZ/VZ-8K-20121017170106.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
On October 17, 2012, Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon), along with Verizon Investment Management Corp. and Fiduciary Counselors Inc., as independent fiduciary of the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the Plan), entered into a definitive purchase agreement (the Agreement) with The Prudential Insurance Company of America (Prudential) and Prudential Financial, Inc., pursuant to which the Plan will purchase a single premium group annuity contract from Prudential to settle approximately $7.5 billion of pension liabilities of the Plan.
Upon issuance of the group annuity contract by Prudential, Prudential will irrevocably assume the obligation to make future annuity payments to approximately 41,000 Verizon management retirees who began receiving pension payments from the Plan prior to January 1, 2010. The amount of each retiree's annuity payment will be equal to the amount of such individual's pension benefit. In addition, the group annuity contract is intended to replicate the same rights to future payments, such as survivor benefits, that are currently offered by the Plan. No decision or other action will be required of any retiree to continue to receive his or her benefits, and there will be no delay in the receipt of benefits.
Other participants in the Plan will be unaffected by this transaction, including management retirees since January 1, 2010, certain retirees of MCI, Inc., active and retired associates and term vested management.
Verizon expects to make additional contributions to the Plan prior to the date of the closing of the transaction so that the Plan's funding percentage does not decrease as a result of this transaction. Verizon currently intends to contribute an aggregate of approximately $2.5 billion to the Plan in connection with the transaction, inclusive of a contribution made in September 2012. The final amount that Verizon will contribute to the Plan will be determined based on several factors, including changes to interest rates and asset valuations between October 17, 2012 and the date of closing. The Agreement includes a closing condition that would allow Verizon to terminate the Agreement if the required contributions exceed a designated level. The closing of the transaction is also subject to other customary closing conditions. Assuming satisfaction of these conditions, Verizon anticipates that the transaction will close and the single premium group annuity contract will be issued in December 2012.
Attached as an exhibit is a press release dated October 17, 2012 issued by Verizon Communications Inc. (Verizon) related to the transaction, which is incorporated herein by reference.
The information provided pursuant to this Item 7.01 is "furnished" and shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the Securities and Exchange Commission or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in any such filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99
NEWS RELEASE
 
 
Verizon Communications Inc. announced today that it has entered into an agreement with The Prudential Insurance Company of America pursuant to which the Verizon Management Pension Plan (the "Plan") will transfer pension assets to Prudential to settle approximately $7.5 billion of Verizon's nearly $30 billion in outstanding pension obligations.
NEW YORK 
Under the agreement, the Plan will purchase a group annuity contract from Prudential, which will then assume the obligation to make future annuity payments to certain Verizon management retirees. The amount of each retiree's annuity payment will be equal to the amount of such individual's pension benefit.
The transaction affects Verizon's U.S. management pension benefits covering approximately 41,000 current management retirees. Current management employees, former management employees who retired on or after Jan. 1, 2010, and certain other retirees are not
Verizon News Release, page 2
 
affected. Union-represented employees and formerly union-represented retirees are not affected as well.
The pension transfer will not change the amount of the monthly pension benefit received by affected retirees and surviving beneficiaries. No action is required on their part. Prudential, rather than Verizon, will be responsible for making these monthly payments. The group annuity contract includes an irrevocable commitment by Prudential to make annuity payments to affected retirees covered under the annuity contract.
The transaction is expected to further Verizon's objective of de-risking the pension plan while improving the company's longer term financial profile.
The move is also designed to transfer the payment obligations to a highly rated and highly regulated insurance company with the capacity to manage large pension transfers and a long history of providing group annuity benefits. Prudential already provides pension plan services to 3.7 million workers and retirees for many corporations nationwide. The closing of the transaction, which is subject to certain conditions, is expected to occur in December 2012.
Affected retirees will soon begin receiving individualized information packages with further details about the transfer, including frequently asked questions. After receiving the package, affected retirees who have additional questions can call the Pension Transfer Information Center at 1-800-340-1139.
Verizon Communications Inc. (NYSE, Nasdaq: VZ), headquartered in New York, is a global leader in delivering broadband and other wireless and wireline communications services to consumer, business, government and wholesale customers. Verizon Wireless operates America's most reliable wireless network. Verizon also provides converged communications, information and entertainment services over America's most advanced fiber-optic network, and delivers integrated business solutions to customers in more than 150 countries, including all of the Fortune 500. For more information, visit .
www.verizon.com
Verizon News Release, page 3
 
VERIZON'S ONLINE NEWS CENTER: Verizon news releases, executive speeches and biographies, media contacts, high-quality video and images, and other information are available at Verizon's News Center on the World Wide Web at . To receive news releases by email, visit the News Center and register for customized automatic delivery of Verizon news releases.
www.verizon.com/news
NOTE: This presentation contains statements about expected future events and financial results that are forward-looking and subject to risks and uncertainties. For those statements, we claim the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The following important factors could affect future results and could cause those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: adverse conditions in the U.S. and international economies; competition in our markets; material adverse changes in labor matters, including labor negotiations or additional organizing activity, and any resulting financial and/or operational impact; material changes in available technology; any disruption of our key suppliers' provisioning of products or services; significant increases in benefit plan costs or lower investment returns on plan assets; breaches of network or information technology security, natural disasters or terrorist attacks or existing or future litigation and any resulting financial impact not covered by insurance; technology substitution; an adverse change in the ratings afforded our debt securities by nationally accredited ratings organizations or adverse conditions in the credit markets impacting the cost, including interest rates, and/or availability of financing; any changes in the regulatory environments in which we operate, including any increase in restrictions on our ability to operate our networks; the timing, scope and financial impact of our deployment of broadband technology; changes in our accounting assumptions that regulatory agencies, including the SEC, may require or that result from changes in the accounting rules or their application, which could result in an impact on earnings; our ability to complete acquisitions and dispositions; and the inability to implement our business strategies.


