FILE:MON/MON-8K-20021030085545.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     On October 30, 2002, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our third quarter 2002 financial and operating results. This press release as well as the third quarter 2002 unaudited supplemental data referenced in the press release are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on October 15, 2002, that a webcast conference call will be held on October 30, 2002, to discuss our third quarter 2002 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The supplemental data referenced in our press release and the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http:\\www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Reports," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information is furnished pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD or that any such information includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
Table of Contents
     Certain statements contained in this report, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, product liability, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
St. Louis  Oct. 30, 2002
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS THIRD-QUARTER 2002 RESULTS
Comment from Monsanto President and Chief Executive Officer Hendrik A. Verfaillie:
"We had reduced sales and earnings from Roundup herbicide in the United States for the quarter and for the first nine months of the year. We're aggressively implementing our plan to reduce the risk of doing business in Latin America, and while this is resulting in lower sales and earnings than previously expected, it's also improving cash generation. We also made good progress on our cost management efforts. Additionally, we're on track to significantly increase our free cash flow this year because of improvements we've made to our investments in working capital."
Third-Quarter and Year-to-Date 2002 Performance Summary:
of $679 million for the quarter were 27 percent below those in the third quarter of 2001. For the first nine months of 2002, sales of $3,453 million were $800 million lower than sales for the same period last year. Continued competitive pressures in the United States and unfavorable U.S. weather conditions contributed to lower sales of Roundup during the quarter and the first nine months of 2002. In Latin America, economic conditions caused us to take actions with our customers to reduce the risk of doing business there and this was also a major factor that contributed to lower sales of Roundup and seeds in both periods.
Sales
 
For a geographic breakdown of sales, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Third-Quarter 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor relations page.
For the third quarter of 2002, the company reported a net loss of $165 million, or a loss of 63 cents per share. This compares with a net loss of $45 million (17 cents per share) during the third quarter of 2001. For the first nine months of 2002, Monsanto reported a net loss of $1,754 million, or a loss of $6.67 per share, compared with net income of $399 million ($1.51 per share) for the same period last year.
Net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share:
Results in the third quarter and nine-month period were affected by lower revenues of Roundup and lower Latin American sales because of economic conditions that caused the company to change its business model in Brazil and Argentina.
In the third quarter of 2002, the company recorded aftertax restructuring and other special items of $18 million (7 cents per share), compared with similar aftertax charges of $8 million (2 cents per share) in the third quarter of 2001.
The first nine months of 2002 included a bad-debt reserve of $100 million aftertax (38 cents per share) for potential uncollectible receivables in Argentina. Restructuring charges for the year-to-date are $61 million aftertax (23 cents per share), compared with $51 million aftertax (20 cents per share) in the first nine months of 2001. EPS in 2002 also benefited from a gain of 8 cents per share related to the asset sales to Nissan Chemical Industries Ltd. in the second quarter. The nine-month comparison also includes the effect of a $1.8 billion aftertax ($6.93 per share) goodwill impairment related to Monsanto's corn and wheat businesses.
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were down $10 million in the quarter and $24 million for the first nine months of 2002. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were up by $8 million compared with last year's third quarter because of higher marketing fees for lawn and garden products, and highter employee benefit expenses. These costs were partially offset by numerous cost reduction actions taken across the company. For the nine-month period, SG&A expenses are down by $82 million, or 9 percent.
Cost management:
Monsanto reported positive free cash flow (cash flow from operations less cash used for investing activities) of $68 million through the first nine months of 2002, compared with a negative free cash flow of $485 million in the same period last year. This improvement was primarily a result of a reduction of the company's investment in working capital.
Cash flow and balance sheet:
For a breakdown of receivables by geography, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Third-Quarter 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor relations page.
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products and the company's animal agriculture business.
Agricultural Productivity Segment:
In this segment, sales decreased 27 percent for the quarter, and 19 percent for the first three quarters of the year. EBIT (earnings before the cumulative effect of an accounting change, interest and income taxes) was a loss of $77 million for the third quarter of 2002, compared with EBIT of $91 million in the same period of 2001. For the first nine months, EBIT declined to $377 million in 2002 versus $862 million in 2001. For the quarter and the nine-month period, sales and EBIT declined primarily because of continued competitive pressures on Roundup herbicide in the United States, unfavorable U.S. weather conditions, and actions taken in conjunction with our customers to reduce the risk of doing business in Latin America.
For a supplemental chart on Roundup herbicide metrics, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Third-Quarter 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor relations page.
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Seeds and Genomics Segment:
Sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment decreased 29 percent for the quarter, and 17 percent for the first nine months of 2002. EBIT was flat quarter-to-quarter at a loss of $157 million with the benefit of no longer amortizing goodwill in 2002 being offset by lower EBIT in Latin America. For the first nine months, EBIT declined by $62 million to a loss of $237 million.
Sales for the quarter were affected by lower corn seed sales in Brazil, which were driven by actions taken by the company in conjunction with our customers in anticipation of a smaller corn market there.
 
For the nine-month period, EBIT and sales benefited from a two-point market share gain for Monsanto's DEKALB and Asgrow corn seed in the United States and higher sales of Monsanto's Roundup Ready corn and YieldGard Corn Borer traits for the 2002 U.S. planting season. However, this was more than offset by economic conditions in Latin America that caused the company to change its business model there, which significantly reduced corn seed sales in Brazil and Argentina. In the first nine months of 2001, sales for this segment also benefited from a shift in timing related to the royalty sales for the company's corn and soybean traits.
For a supplemental chart providing an estimate of acreage planted with Monsanto's technology traits worldwide in 2002, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Third-Quarter 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor relations page.
Other Items of Note:
Earlier this month, Monsanto's YieldGard Rootworm insect-protected corn product moved a step closer to becoming a registered product in the United States. On Oct. 8, 2002, the U.S. Department of Agriculture granted environmental clearance for corn containing the Monsanto trait. The final environmental assessment for this product remains pending at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).
Also in October, Monsanto and Dow AgroSciences announced an agreement on a series of royalty-bearing licenses and options to products and technologies related to insect-protected corn and Roundup Ready corn, soybeans, cotton and canola.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at www.monsanto.com. To access this supplemental information, please go to the "Financial Reports" section under the investor relations page of the web site.
Outlook Comment from President and Chief Executive Officer Hendrik A. Verfaillie:
"In the fourth quarter, we expect to have incremental growth in our North American seed and traits businesses as a significant portion of our corn and soybean trait revenues for the 2003 planting season will be earned. We'll also continue to sell seeds and herbicides in Latin America as farmers there complete their major planting season."
2002 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Full-year 2002 earnings per share (EPS) are expected to be in the range of $1.15 to $1.23. The 2002 EPS expectation includes a gain of 8 cents per share related to the asset sale to Nissan Chemical, and excludes charges of 38 cents per share for the Argentine bad-debt reserve established in the second quarter, 32 cents per share for restructuring charges, and $6.93 per share for the cumulative effect of an accounting change related to goodwill impairment. The company reiterated the goal of generating between $400 million and $460 million in free cash flow by the end of 2002. Monsanto is not providing earnings guidance for 2003 at this time.
 
 
Segment Data:
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, product liability, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup, DEKALB, Asgrow, Roundup Ready and YieldGard are trademarks owned by Monsanto or its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn and garden products.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


