FILE:MON/MON-8K-20030731080119.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
(c)  Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On July 31, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our second quarter 2003 financial and operating results. This press release, as well as the second quarter and first-half 2003 unaudited supplemental data, and information regarding 1996  2003 Monsanto Biotechnology U.S. Trait Acreage, all referenced in the press release, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on July 16, 2003, that a webcast conference call would be held on July 31, 2003, to discuss our second quarter 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The data referenced in our press release and in the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http://www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Information and Presentations," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits, or that any such information includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
     Certain statements contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available
Table of Contents
information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On July 31, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our second quarter 2003 financial and operating results. In addition, we announced in a press release issued on July 16, 2003, that a webcast conference call would be held on July 31, 2003, to discuss our second quarter 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. All information appearing under "Item 9. Regulation  FD Disclosure", with the exception of the paragraph regarding the furnishing of information pursuant to Regulation FD, is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 are incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release and other materials furnished herewith use the non-GAAP financial measures of "EBIT" and "free cash flow." We define "EBIT" as earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. EBIT is the primary operating performance measure for our two business segments. We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the company.
     We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
     The presentation of EBIT and free cash flow is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. Our EBIT and free cash flow measures may not be comparable to other
Table of Contents
companies' EBIT and free cash flow performance measures. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 31, 2003
Table of Contents

 
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER 2003 RESULTS
St. Louis  July 31, 2003
NM = Not Meaningful
Comment from Monsanto President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Our results in the second quarter were anchored by strong and steady growth in our seeds and biotechnology traits businesses. We also continued to effectively manage our Roundup herbicide franchise in a post-patent environment."
Second-Quarter and First-Half 2003 Performance Summary:
increased 8 percent to $1.7 billion in the second quarter primarily because of higher Latin American and U.S. corn seed sales and higher trait revenues for corn, cotton, soybeans and canola in North America. These improvements were somewhat offset by lower sales of Roundup and selective herbicides in the United States.
Net sales
 
For the first half, net sales were $2.8 billion, a 2 percent improvement compared with net sales in the same period last year. Improved performance of our corn seed business in Latin America, higher sales of corn seed in the United States, and higher revenues for technology traits were largely offset by lower U.S. sales of Roundup and selective herbicides.
On a reported basis, second-quarter 2003 net income was $295 million, or $1.12 cents per share, compared with last year's second-quarter net income of $147 million, or $0.56 per share.
Net income and earnings per share:
The company's first-half 2003 net income of $355 million, or $1.35 per share, included a 5 cent-per share charge associated with an accounting change related to asset retirement obligations that was taken in the first quarter. For the first half of 2002, Monsanto reported a net loss of $1.6 billion, or a loss of $6.02 per share. Several factors during the first half of 2002 affected comparability, including a charge for goodwill impairment ($6.90 per share), establishment of an Argentine bad-debt reserve (38 cents per share), restructuring charges (16 cents per share), and an 8 cent-per share gain from an asset sale in Japan.
The company continued efforts to manage its costs in the quarter, with research-and-development (R&D) expenses declining by 9 percent, and the benefits of lower operational selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses being more than offset by accruals for potential incentive payments to employees.
Operating costs:
Through the first half of the year, R&D expenses declined by 6 percent and the benefits of lower operational SG&A expenses were somewhat offset by accruals for potential incentive payments to employees, resulting in SG&A expenses $18 million higher than SG&A costs in the same period last year.
Year-to-date net cash required by operations was $138 million in 2003, compared with $347 million through the first six months of 2002. Net cash required by investing activities was $85 million through the first half of 2003, and $84 million for the same period last year. Thus, year-to-date free cash flow improved by $208 million, from a negative $431 million in the first half of 2002 to a negative $223 million in this year's first half. (For reconciliation, see note 6.)
Cash flow:
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
Second-quarter net sales of $488 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment more than doubled compared with sales recorded in last year's second quarter. This improvement
 
was driven by the actions taken last year in Latin America by Monsanto management as well as improved economic conditions there. Corn seed sales were up for the quarter and the first half. Branded soybean seed sales were higher for the quarter; and as expected, were modestly lower for the first half of 2003. Revenues were up for Monsanto's soybean, corn, cotton and canola traits in the quarter-to-quarter comparison. For the six-month calendar year comparison, the improvement was driven primarily by higher revenues for the company's cotton and canola traits.
For the full 2003 crop year, Monsanto estimates that its insect-protected and Roundup Ready technology traits were planted on approximately 104.8 million acres in the United States. This represents an increase of 8 percent compared with 97.3 million U.S. acres planted with Monsanto's traits the previous crop year.
EBIT (net income before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment improved by $255 million in the second quarter, to a positive $59 million this year, from a loss of $196 million in the second quarter of 2002. EBIT also improved for the first six-month period, to a positive $154 million this year, from a loss of $80 million in 2002. The major factors for the improvement in both periods were higher overall sales of seeds and traits, and lower corn seed returns in Latin America. (For reconciliation, see note 5.)
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment declined by $145 million in the quarter-to-quarter comparison and $184 million in the first-half comparison, primarily as a result of lower sales of branded Roundup and selective herbicides.
EBIT (net income before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) declined by 7 percent to $395 million for the second quarter of 2003, from $426 million in the same period last year. For the first half, EBIT for this segment is down 7 percent, to $424 million. The EBIT decline is driven primarily by lower volumes of branded Roundup and a shift to lower-priced brands of Roundup, as expected in the post-patent U.S. market. (For reconciliation, see note 5.)
Other Items of Note:
 
On July 31, Monsanto announced a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $500 million of the company's shares of common stock over a three-year period.
In its second-quarter financial release on July 29, Solutia Inc. announced reduced earnings and cash flow. Solutia also said that it is considering all available alternatives to address liabilities it assumed from Pharmacia Corporation (now a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.) in its 1997 spinoff. As Monsanto has previously disclosed, it has agreed to indemnify Pharmacia for certain obligations if Solutia is unable to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Obviously, these disclosures by Solutia suggest an increased level of potential risk for Monsanto.
On July 23, the company announced a fiscal year-end change to August 31 from December 31 to align its business cycle more closely with those of its customers, thereby improving the clarity of Monsanto's business cycle to investors.
On June 27, Monsanto requested permission to file a counterclaim in the lawsuit brought by Delta and Pine Land Company against Monsanto relating to the failed merger. Monsanto's counterclaim would seek substantial damages and recoupment of the $83 million breakup fee previously paid to Delta and Pine Land. In addition, Delta and Pine Land has requested that this trial, originally scheduled for January 2004, be postponed until July 2004. There has been no ruling on either request by the court.
As noted in the Seeds and Genomics segment discussion, Monsanto's preliminary data for the 2003 crop year indicates an 8 percent increase in the number of U.S. acres planted with the company's technology traits. The supplemental chart providing an estimate of this biotechnology acreage information can be found on Monsanto's web site by selecting "1996  2003 Monsanto Biotechnology U.S. Trait Acreage" in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page.
Other supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, can also be found in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page of the company's web site at: www.monsanto.com.
Outlook Comment from President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"We're pleased with our results through the first six months of 2003, and we're looking forward to providing a complete crop year picture of our business as we switch to the new fiscal-year calendar. We're now focused on the predominant Latin American planting season which begins as early as September, and we're also making pricing decisions in anticipation of the 2004 North American crop year."
2003 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
As noted above, Monsanto is changing its fiscal year-end to August 31. The company plans to provide earnings and free cash flow guidance for this new crop fiscal year in October. However, management also intends to report earnings and cash flow information for the current calendar year so that the company's progress on meeting its original 2003 financial commitments can be tracked.
Monsanto management refined its current calendar full-year 2003 earnings per share (EPS) guidance to the higher side of its earlier range. The revised EPS range of $1.30 to $1.40 excludes the 5-cent cumulative effect of the new accounting standard (see note 2).
Management reiterated its expectation of generating free cash flow in the 2003 calendar year in the range of $350 million to $400 million. Management anticipates cash from
 
operating activities will be in the range of $530 million to $560 million, and that cash used in investing activities will be in the range of $160 million to $180 million. For a reconciliation of projected free cash flow for 2003, see note 7.
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup and Roundup Ready are trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden products.
 
 
 
 
 

 
*     Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


