FILE:MON/MON-8K-20030430080208.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE (ITEM 12. DISCLOSURE OF RESULTS OF OPERATING AND FINANCIAL CONDITION).
Earnings Materials Furnished
     On April 30, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our first quarter 2003 financial and operating results. This press release as well as the first quarter 2003 unaudited supplemental data referenced in the press release are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on April 16, 2003, that a webcast conference would be held on April 30, 2003, to discuss our first quarter 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The supplemental data referenced in our press release and the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http://www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Reports," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measures of "EBIT" and "free cash flow." We define "EBIT" as earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our business segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the company.
     We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as a measure of our ability to generate cash, which can be returned to our shareowners through a dividend payment or share repurchases, or to debt holders in the form of principal repayments. Free cash flow can also be reinvested into the company for future growth and is used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
     The presentation of EBIT and free cash flow is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. Our EBIT and free cash flow measures may not be comparable to other companies' EBIT and free cash flow performance measures. Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Table of Contents
Procedural Matters
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, under Item 9 "Regulation FD Disclosure" pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). The information contained in this report is also being furnished under Item 12 "Disclosure of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in accordance with the procedural guidance issued by the SEC in Release No. 33-8126. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
     Certain statements contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
MONSANTO REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2003 FINANCIAL RESULTS
St. Louis  April 30, 2003
NM = Not Meaningful
Comment from Monsanto Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer and President Frank AtLee:
"Our focus is to deliver on our commitments, and we have done so with both our earnings and free cash flow generation in the first quarter. We are on-track to meet our commitments to deliver value to shareowners through sustainable cash generation, earnings, and increased dividends."
 
First-Quarter 2003 Performance Summary:
decreased 6 percent to $1.1 billion in the first quarter primarily because of lower U.S. sales of Roundup. Lower sales of branded soybean seeds and traits in the United States, and of selective herbicides globally, also affected the quarter-to-quarter comparison.
Net sales
On a reported basis, this year's first-quarter income of $60 million, or 23 cents per share, includes a 5 cent-per-share charge associated with an accounting change related to asset retirement obligations. First-quarter 2002 reported net loss of $1.7 billion includes the $1.8 billion aftertax charge for goodwill impairment. Excluding the effects of accounting changes in both periods, first-quarter 2003 net income was $72 million, or 28 cents per share, compared with last year's first-quarter net income of $86 million, or 33 cents per share.
Net income and earnings per share:
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were $116 million in the first quarter, down 3 percent compared with R&D expenses in the same period last year. In the first quarter, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $21 million lower than SG&A costs in the same period last year.
Cost management:
Net cash required by operations improved by $153 million and net cash required by investing activities improved by $2 million. Accordingly, year-to-date free cash flow improved by $155 million, from a negative $915 million in the first quarter of 2002 to a negative $760 million in this year's first quarter. (For reconciliation, see note 5.)
Cash flow:
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
First-quarter net sales of $550 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment were $35 million lower than sales of $585 million recorded in last year's first quarter, primarily a result of timing of sales in the U.S. business. U.S. branded soybean seed sales were lower for the quarter and are expected to be modestly lower for the 2003 crop year. For the quarter, corn seed sales were up. Revenues for Monsanto's corn and soybean technology traits were lower in the quarter-to-quarter comparison. However, sales are expected to increase on a U.S. crop year basis, as shifts in the timing of U.S. sales were the major factors affecting this year's first-quarter results.
EBIT (earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment decreased to $95 million, from $116 million in the first quarter of 2002, primarily because of lower sales. (For reconciliation, see note 4.)
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment declined by $39 million in the quarter-to-quarter comparison, primarily as a result of lower volumes and pricing of branded Roundup.
EBIT (earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) was relatively flat at $29 million for the first quarter of 2003, from $28 million in the same period last year. The sales shortfall noted above was primarily offset by lower SG&A costs attributed to the Agricultural Productivity segment. (For reconciliation, see note 4.)
Other Items of Note:
In late February, the company's YieldGard Rootworm insect-protected corn trait was registered by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). This allowed Monsanto to market the first biotech corn designed to control the corn rootworm pest. Limited quantities of seed containing the YieldGard Rootworm trait will be available for the 2003 growing season.
In April, Monsanto and DuPont announced a licensing agreement for the YieldGard Rootworm corn technology. Monsanto will receive royalties and certain other payments from DuPont based on this agreement.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at www.monsanto.com. To access this supplemental information, please go to the "Financial Reports" section under the investor information page of the web site.
 
2003 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Monsanto management expects full-year 2003 earnings per share (EPS) in the range of $1.25 to $1.40, excluding the 5-cent cumulative effect of the new accounting standard (see note 2).
First-half 2003 EPS is now expected to be in the range of $1.19 to $1.33 per share, or 95 percent of the full-year EPS guidance. This is up from the earlier guidance of 85 percent to 90 percent of full-year EPS in the first half. Accordingly, second-quarter 2003 EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.91 to $1.05 per share. All EPS guidance excludes the cumulative effect of adopting the asset retirement obligations accounting standard.
Management reiterated its expectation of generating free cash flow in 2003 in the range of $350 million to $400 million. Management anticipates cash from operating activities will be in the range of $530 million to $560 million, and that cash used in investing activities will be in the range of $160 million to $180 million. For a reconciliation of projected free cash flow for 2003 see note 6.
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup and YieldGard are trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden products.
 
 
 
 
 
     6.     
Reconciliation of Projected Free Cash Flow for 2003:

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
*     Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


