FILE:MON/MON-8K-20030402111855.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
MONSANTO COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     On April 2, 2003, Monsanto Company's chief operating officer of North American Operations, Kerry Preete, will address investors at the Deutsche Bank Basic Industries Conference in New York. A press release dated March 21, 2003, issued by Monsanto Company, a slide presentation to be given at the conference, and an additional press release dated April 2, 2003, issued by Monsanto Company, are attached to this report as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the attached slide presentation, pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information is furnished pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD or that the information includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached slide presentation, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached slide presentation, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
     Certain statements contained in this report, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to
Table of Contents
agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     A copy of the attached slide presentation is available for viewing under the "Investor Information" page on our website located at http:\\www.monsanto.com, although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time. In addition, a simultaneous audio webcast of the presentation may be accessed under the "Investor Information" page on our website located at http:\\www.monsanto.com and a replay of the webcast will be available on our website for two weeks.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
     NEW YORK (March 21, 2003)  Kerry Preete, chief operating officer of North American operations for Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) will address investors at 11 a.m. EST on Wednesday, April 2, 2003, at the Deutsche Bank Basic Industries Conference in New York.
     Preete will provide an update on the company's strategy, and also discuss industry trends and the company's North American market focus for 2003. His presentation may also include information on Monsanto's initiatives, product performance, future expectations, and other business matters.
     Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the presentation may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for two weeks.
www.monsanto.com
     Monsanto Company a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.3
MONSANTO COMPANY INCREASES FIRST-QUARTER EPS GUIDANCE; FULL-YEAR 2003 EPS GUIDANCE IS RECONFIRMED
     NEW YORK (April 2, 2003)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today that it is increasing its first-quarter earnings guidance. The company said that 15 percent to 20 percent of its full-year earnings per share (EPS) would occur in the first quarter. This percent was revised upward from the company's earlier estimate for the first quarter of 10 percent of annual EPS.
     The company also reconfirmed its full-year 2003 EPS guidance in the range of $1.20 to $1.40, and reaffirmed that 85 percent to 90 percent of the company's full-year guidance will be made in the first-half of the year. This guidance excludes the aftertax cumulative effect of implementing the new accounting standard (SFAS No. 143, ) of approximately 5 cents per share recorded in the first quarter of 2003.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
     Monsanto Vice President of U.S. Markets Kerry Preete made the announcement today during his remarks at the 2003 Deutsche Bank Basic Industries Conference in New York. Preete noted that Monsanto increased its projected first-quarter earnings because of lower spending and better results in Brazil. The company had better-than-expected use of Roundup herbicide at the end of the major growing season in Brazil, and higher sales of corn seed for the secondary planting season in Brazil.
     In his remarks, Preete also noted that the company's U.S. business is leading Monsanto's transformation from a company based on a strong chemistry portfolio to a company based on seeds and biotechnology. He added that the most significant near- and mid-term growth opportunities will come from the company's corn seed and trait portfolio.
     Monsanto's corn trait business is expected to grow as new traits are introduced and existing traits are planted on more acres, Preete noted. The company estimates that its Roundup Ready corn trait has
 
the potential to be planted on approximately 20 million acres in the United States by the end of 2005. Its most recently approved product, YieldGard Rootworm, will offer growers a new tool against the "billion dollar" corn rootworm pest and will ultimately have a target market of 15 million acres in the United States. Preete indicated that the best margin opportunities reside in Monsanto's ability to continue to rapidly incorporate stacked traits in one seed.
     To hear Preete's presentation and view the accompanying slides, please go to Monsanto's web site (www.monsanto.com) and select "Presentations" under the investor relations' page. A replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for two weeks.
     Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Note to editors: Roundup, Roundup Ready and YieldGard are registered trademarks of Monsanto Technology, LLC.
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, product liability, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


