FILE:MON/MON-8K-20030205080139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
(Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, PRO FORMA FINANCIAL INFORMATION AND EXHIBITS.
(c)       Exhibits
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE
     On February 5, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our fourth quarter and full-year 2002 financial and operating results. This press release as well as the fourth quarter and full-year 2002 unaudited supplemental data and the 1996-2002 Monsanto Biotechnology Trait Acreage referenced in the press release are furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on January 20, 2003, that a webcast conference would be held on February 5, 2003, to discuss our fourth quarter and full-year 2002 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The supplemental data referenced in our press release and the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http:\\www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Reports," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information is furnished pursuant to Item 9 of Form 8-K and shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, that is required to be disclosed solely by reason of Regulation FD or that any such information includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the attached supplemental data and slide presentation, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
Table of Contents
     Certain statements contained in this report, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS FOURTH-QUARTER AND FULL-YEAR 2002 RESULTS St. Louis  Feb. 5, 2003
Comment from Monsanto Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer Frank V. AtLee:
"Monsanto's shift to a company fueled by its growing technology traits and seeds business was evident in our fourth-quarter results, although increases in those businesses were mostly offset by reduced sales from our branded Roundup herbicide in Brazil and the United States. We implemented a plan with our customers to reduce the risk of doing business in Latin America in 2002, and we're well positioned for a return to more normal operations in that region. Our focus on improving working capital investments in 2002 allowed us to exceed our free cash flow target."
 
Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2002 Performance Summary:
of $1.2 billion for the quarter were 1 percent above those in the fourth quarter of 2001. The slight improvement in the fourth-quarter net sales comparison is the result of increased demand for the company's biotechnology traits and strong corn seed sales in the United States, which was largely offset by lower sales of branded Roundup in Brazil and the United States.
Net sales
For the full year, net sales were $4.7 billion, compared with 2001 net sales of $5.5 billion. Continued competitive pressures and unfavorable weather conditions in the United States contributed to lower sales of Roundup in 2002. In Latin America, economic conditions caused us to take steps with our customers to reduce the risk of doing business there. These actions included reducing distributor inventories of Roundup and seeds in the region, tightening our credit policies, and selling closer to the time farmers are using our products. As a result of these changes to our operations, sales of Roundup and seeds were significantly lower in Argentina and Brazil in 2002.
For a geographic breakdown of net sales, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Fourth-Quarter and Full-Year 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page.
For the fourth quarter of 2002, the company reported net income of $61 million (23 cents per share). This compares with a net loss of $104 million (40 cents per share) during the fourth quarter of 2001. For the full year, Monsanto reported a net loss of $1.7 billion ($6.45 per share), compared with net income of $295 million ($1.12 per share) for 2001.
Net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share:
Earnings in the fourth quarter and the full year were affected by the same operational factors that lowered sales in those periods as described above.
In the fourth quarter of 2002, the company recorded net aftertax restructuring items of $20 million (8 cents per share), compared with net aftertax restructuring and other special items of $86 million (34 cents per share) in the fourth quarter of 2001. Results in the fourth quarter of 2001 also included a net charge for litigation matters of $39 million aftertax (15 cents per share).
Full-year 2002 results also included bad-debt expense of $100 million aftertax (38 cents per share) established during the second quarter for estimated uncollectible receivables in Argentina. Net restructuring charges for the year were $81 million aftertax (31 cents per share), compared with $137 million aftertax (52 cents per share) in 2001 for restructuring and other special items. Full-year 2001 results also included a net charge for litigation matters of $39 million aftertax (15 cents per share). EPS in 2002 also benefited from a gain of 8 cents per share related to certain asset sales to Nissan Chemical Industries Ltd. in the second quarter. The full-year comparison also included the effect of a $1.8 billion aftertax ($6.94 per share) goodwill impairment related to Monsanto's corn and wheat businesses.
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were $141 million in the fourth quarter, and $527 million for the year, down 6 percent compared with R&D expenses in the same periods of 2001. Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses of $231 million for the fourth quarter and $1 billion for the year were down 13 percent and
Cost management:
 
10 percent, respectively, from the comparable 2001 periods. These declines reflect the company's ongoing efforts to manage costs.
Monsanto reported positive free cash flow (sum of cash flows from operations and investing activities as reflected in the Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows included with this news release) of $639 million for 2002, compared with free cash flow of $183 million in 2001. This improvement was primarily a result of a reduction of the company's investment in working capital, particularly in Latin America. Net trade receivables were $1.8 billion at the end of 2002, or 24 percent lower, than 2001 year-end net trade receivables of $2.3 billion. The reduction in 2002 receivables included the Argentine $154 million pretax ($100 million aftertax) bad-debt reserve established during the second quarter.
Cash flow and balance sheet:
Capital spending in 2002 declined 41 percent to $224 million as the company completed a number of capital projects during 2001.
For a breakdown of receivables by geography, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "Fourth Quarter and Full-Year 2002 Supplemental Data" in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page.
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agriculture business.
Agricultural Productivity Segment:
In this segment, net sales decreased 11 percent for the quarter, and 18 percent for the year. EBIT (earnings before the cumulative effect of an accounting change, interest and income taxes) improved to a loss of $11 million for the fourth quarter of 2002, compared with a loss of $90 million in the same period of 2001. For the full year, EBIT declined to $366 million in 2002 versus EBIT of $772 million in 2001.
For the quarter and the year, net sales declined primarily because of continued competitive pressures on Roundup herbicide in the United States and actions taken with our customers to reduce the risk of doing business in Latin America.
EBIT for the fourth quarter of 2002 improved compared with the same period in 2001 for this segment primarily because the fourth quarter of 2001 included a charge related to the resolution of a legal matter and higher restructuring charges.
 
In addition to the factors noted above, full-year net sales and EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment were affected by unfavorable U.S. weather conditions in the second and third quarters of the year, which reduced volumes and sales of Roundup.
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Seeds and Genomics Segment:
Net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased 16 percent in the fourth quarter, but declined 7 percent for the year. EBIT improved by $197 million quarter-to-quarter, from a loss of $65 million in the fourth quarter of 2001 to positive EBIT of $132 million in the same period of 2002. For the full year, EBIT improved to a loss of $105 million in 2002 from a loss of $240 million in 2001.
Net sales and EBIT for the quarter reflected strong demand by U.S. farmers for the company's branded corn seed as well as higher sales of Monsanto's biotechnology traits for corn and soybeans. However, in preparation for the expected decrease in U.S. soybean acres in 2003, customers purchased less soybean seed, which somewhat offset the increases for traits.
For the year, EBIT and net sales benefited from a two-point market share gain for DEKALB and Asgrow brand corn seed in the United States. Corn trait revenue also increased for the year, even though 2001 results included trait sales for more than one season because of the company's switch to a royalty payment system for its licensed traits in corn and soybeans.
These gains were more than offset by economic and market conditions in Latin America that caused the company to change its operations there, which significantly reduced corn seed sales in Brazil and Argentina. Lower demand for soybean seeds by U.S. farmers also affected full-year EBIT for this segment.
EBIT for the Seeds and Genomics segment benefited in both the fourth quarter and the year, by $27 million and $117 million, respectively, because goodwill is no longer amortized in accordance with the company's adoption of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 142, .
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
For a supplemental chart providing an estimate of acreage planted with Monsanto's technology traits worldwide in 2002, please go to Monsanto's web site and select "1996-2002 Monsanto Biotechnology Trait Acreage" in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page.
 
Other Items of Note:
In late December, Monsanto's Bollgard II insect-protected cotton product received full U.S. regulatory approval when the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) granted environmental clearance for cotton containing the Monsanto second-generation trait. Limited quantities of seed containing the Bollgard II trait will be available for the 2003 season.
Also in December, the Philippines' Department of Agriculture's Bureau of Plant Industry granted commercial approval to Monsanto's YieldGard Corn Borer insect-protected corn. This is the first biotech crop approved for planting in the Philippines.
On Jan. 1, 2003, Monsanto adopted SFAS No. 143, . This accounting standard addresses the legal obligations associated with the retirement of tangible long-lived assets. Adoption of this standard will have a noncash cumulative effect of an accounting change as of Jan. 1, 2003, and is expected to increase depreciation expense for the company in 2003 and beyond.
Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations
For a reconciliation of EBIT to net income as reported in Monsanto's Condensed Statement of Consolidated Operations presented in this news release, please see the Segment Data table, which is also included in this release.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at www.monsanto.com. To access this supplemental information, please go to the "Financial Reports" section under the investor information page of the web site.
Outlook Comment from Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer Frank V. AtLee:
"The actions taken in Latin America during 2002 have set the stage for Monsanto to realize solid business results in 2003. Increased revenues and gross profits from seeds and traits are expected to help to offset the projected decline in gross profit from Roundup herbicide."
2003 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Full-year 2003 earnings per share (EPS) are expected to be in the range of $1.20 to $1.40, excluding the cumulative effect of the new accounting standard and the resulting increase in depreciation expense (see footnote 5). Management expects free cash flow generation in 2003 to be roughly in the range of $350 million to $400 million.
 
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency effects, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup, DEKALB, Asgrow, Bollgard, Bollgard II, and YieldGard are trademarks owned by Monsanto or its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn and garden products.
 
 
Segment Data:
Reconciliation of Income (Loss) Before Cumulative Effect of Accounting Change to EBIT:
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


