FILE:MON/MON-8K-20031015085150.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 9. REGULATION FD DISCLOSURE.
     On October 15, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for periods ended August 31, 2003. This press release, as well as the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2003 unaudited supplemental data, and information regarding 1996  2003 Monsanto Biotechnology Trait Acreage, all referenced in the press release, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1, 99.2 and 99.3 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on September 18, 2003, that a webcast conference call would be held on October 15, 2003, to discuss our August 31, 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.4 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The data referenced in our press release and in the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http://www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Information and Presentations," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Regulation FD promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits, or that any such information includes material investor information that is not otherwise publicly available.
     The information contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, is summary information that is intended to be considered in the context of our SEC filings and other public announcements that we may make, by press release or otherwise, from time to time. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update the information contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, although we may do so from time to time as our management believes is warranted. Any such updating may be made through the filing of other reports or documents with the SEC, through press releases or through other public disclosure.
     Certain statements contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and
Table of Contents
existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On October 15, 2003, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing our financial and operating results for periods ended August 31, 2003. In addition, we announced in a press release issued on September 18, 2003, 2003, that a webcast conference call would be held on October 15, 2003, to discuss our August 31, 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. All information appearing under "Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure", with the exception of the paragraph regarding the furnishing of information pursuant to Regulation FD, is incorporated herein by reference. In addition, Exhibits 99.1, 99.2, 99.3 and 99.4 are incorporated herein by reference.
     Also on October 15, 2003, we posted to our web site updated historical pro forma financial information based on our new fiscal year-end of August 31st. This updated historical pro forma financial information is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.5 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release and other materials furnished herewith use the non-GAAP financial measures of "EBIT," "free cash flow" and earnings per share ("EPS") excluding the effect of certain items. We define "EBIT" as earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. EBIT is the primary operating performance measure for our two business segments. We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the company.
     We define "free cash flow" as the total of net cash flows provided or required by operations and provided or required by investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
     Our non-GAAP EPS financial measure excludes the impact of restructuring charges and charges associated with the settlement of certain litigation. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release and other materials furnished herewith. We believe that our non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes and as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
Table of Contents
     The presentation of EBIT, free cash flow and EPS excluding the effect of certain items is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, comprehensive income (loss) or earnings per share, as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 15, 2003
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR PERIODS ENDED AUG. 31, 2003; ANNOUNCES MID-TERM STRATEGIC ACTIONS
St. Louis  Oct. 15, 2003
NM = Not Meaningful
* Monsanto recently changed its fiscal year-end from Dec. 31 to Aug. 31. Because of this change, we will report the eight-month "transition period" results in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules in our next annual report (see first table above). We also are providing information reflecting the three-month and 12-month periods ended Aug. 31, 2003 and 2002 (see second table above). We will refer to these three-month and 12-month periods as the fourth quarter and fiscal year, respectively. Discussion in this news release will focus on the fourth quarter and fiscal year information.
 
Highlights:
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"This is the first time we're reporting results based on a fiscal year that synchronizes our results with the natural flow of the agricultural cycle in our major markets. Our fourth-quarter and fiscal-year 2003 results underscore the growth of our seeds and biotechnology traits businesses, while also demonstrating the strong cash-generating capabilities of our Roundup herbicide franchise."
Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2003 Performance Summary:
increased 10 percent to $1.3 billion in the fourth quarter primarily because of improved performance in our Latin American corn business and higher U.S. trait revenues for corn and soybeans.
Net sales
For the fiscal year, net sales were relatively flat at $4.9 billion. Higher sales of corn seed and increased revenues from insect-protected and herbicide-tolerant corn traits were offset by lower sales of Roundup and selective chemistry in the United States.
Monsanto recorded a fourth-quarter 2003 net loss of $188 million, or a loss of 72 cents per share, compared with last year's fourth-quarter net loss of $27 million, or a loss of 10 cents per share.
Net income (loss) and per share results:
     Items affecting comparability in the fourth quarter of 2003 included:
     Items affecting comparability in the fourth quarter of 2002 included:
 
For fiscal year 2003, Monsanto recorded net income $68 million, or 26 cents per share, compared to a net loss of $1.8 billion, or a loss of $6.67 per share, in fiscal year 2002.
     Items affecting comparability for fiscal year 2003 included:
     Items affecting comparability in fiscal year 2002 included:
The company continued efforts to manage its research-and-development (R&D) and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) costs. For the year, R&D expenses declined by 7 percent, and SG&A expenses were relatively flat.
Operating costs:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities. Net cash provided by operations was $1,128 million, compared with $855 million in 2002. Net cash required by investing activities was $482 million, compared with $274 million in 2002. As a result, free cash flow improved by $65 million, from $581 million in 2002 to $646 million in 2003.
Cash flow:
Mid-Term Strategic Actions:
In addition to announcing its fourth quarter and fiscal year results today, Monsanto also outlined plans to continue to reduce the costs associated with its agricultural chemistry business as that sector matures globally. Concurrently, the company will further concentrate its resources on its seeds and biotechnology traits businesses.
Specifically, these plans include: (1) Reducing costs associated with its Roundup herbicide business, (2) Exiting the European breeding and seed business for wheat and barley; and (3) Discontinuing our plant-made pharmaceuticals program.
These plans are expected to produce aftertax savings of approximately $80 million to $95 million in fiscal year 2005, and approximately $90 million to $105 million in fiscal year 2006, with continuing savings going forward. The actions will require charges of up to $155 million aftertax, or 59 cents per share in fiscal year 2004. Decisions surrounding the European wheat and barley business will also require a re-evaluation for potential impairment of goodwill related to our global wheat business. Goodwill for this business is currently recorded at roughly $80 million pretax. The company also expects these actions will lower its SG&A costs as a percent of sales to the high teens by the end of fiscal year 2006.
 
As a result of these actions, management expects the growth rate for reported earnings to increase at a compounded annual growth rate of approximately 10 percent in fiscal years 2005 and 2006. Monsanto's current global work force of 13,200 is expected to be reduced in the range of 7 percent to 9 percent by the end of fiscal year 2004.
Comment from Hugh Grant:
"Following on our solid results for fiscal year 2003, we are announcing today plans designed to accelerate earnings growth during the next several years. We plan to reduce costs, sharpen our focus on the growth segment of agriculture, and accelerate Monsanto's strategic evolution to a company led by its strengths in seeds and traits.
"By aligning our costs with our expectations for the glyphosate herbicide market, we believe the Roundup franchise can continue to be a significant and sustainable source of cash generation for Monsanto.
"The progress in our R&D pipeline also gives us the flexibility to scale back on certain projects in order to focus on those that have the best commercial potential. Because we have a robust pipeline, we can make these tradeoffs and maintain our overall R&D leadership position and our first-mover advantage."
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
Fourth-quarter net sales of $258 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased substantially compared with sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2002. This improvement was driven by the actions taken last year in Latin America by Monsanto management as well as improved economic conditions there. Higher revenues from the company's YieldGard insect-protected corn and Roundup Ready herbicide-tolerant corn and soybean traits in the United States also contributed to the quarter-over-quarter improvement. For the 12-month comparison, the improvement was driven primarily by the same factors mentioned above, and by higher revenues for stacked Roundup Ready and Bollgard insect-protected cotton traits.
EBIT (earnings (loss) before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment improved by $183 million in the fourth quarter, to a loss of $145 million from a loss of $328 million in the comparable 2002 period. On a fiscal year basis, the Seeds and Genomics segment was EBIT-positive for the first time. In fiscal year 2003, EBIT improved to $183 million, from a loss of $302 million in 2002. The major factors for the improvement in both periods were higher overall sales of seeds and traits, and lower corn seed returns in Latin America. (For reconciliation of EBIT, see note 5.)
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment declined by $69 million in the quarter and $349 million for the year, primarily as a result of lower sales of branded Roundup and selective herbicides, particularly in the United States.
EBIT (earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes) declined by $429 million for the fourth quarter of 2003, to a loss of $137 million from $292 million in the same period last year. The primary reason for the decline in the quarter was Monsanto's contribution to the litigation settlement, which was charged to this business segment. For the year, EBIT for this segment declined $439 million, driven primarily by the contribution to the litigation settlement, and by lower volumes and prices of branded Roundup in the post-patent U.S. market. (For reconciliation of EBIT, see note 5.)
Other Items of Note:
On Oct. 14, the company's Board of Directors unanimously elected Hugh Grant as the company's chairman of the board. Grant will retain his responsibilities as president and chief executive officer of Monsanto. Former board chairman Frank V. AtLee will continue to serve as a member of the board. In addition, the chairman of the board's nominating and corporate governance committee, Robert J. Stevens, will serve in the new capacity of presiding director and will preside at non-management executive sessions of the board. The executive committee of the board is comprised of Grant, Stevens, and William U. Parfet, who serves as the chairman of the board's audit and finance committee.
Also on Oct. 14, Monsanto and Bayer announced the resolution of issues between them regarding several biotechnology patent disputes. The resolution included cross licensing of enabling technologies for herbicide-tolerant crops, and the granting of royalty-bearing licenses for one another's technologies for insect-protected crops.
Other supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, can also be found in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page of the company's web site at: www.monsanto.com.
 
Outlook Comment from Hugh Grant:
"In fiscal year 2004, we'll continue to focus on the growth prospects available in the seeds and technology traits sector of the agricultural industry. We'll also strike a balance between streamlining the infrastructure for our Roundup business while maintaining a high level of customer service as we intend to sustain this franchise as a significant cash generator for some time."
2004 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Guidance:
The company's EPS guidance for fiscal year 2004 is in the range of $1.40 to $1.50, excluding the effect of the restructuring actions announced today (estimated at 59 cents per share). On a reported basis and including the estimated restructuring charge, EPS guidance is in the range of 81 cents to 91 cents. Both EPS guidance ranges exclude any potential goodwill writeoff related to the decision to exit the European wheat and barley business.
On an ongoing business basis, roughly 30 percent of the fiscal year earnings are expected in the first half of the year, with 50 percent in the third quarter, and 20 percent in the fourth quarter.
Free cash flow generation for fiscal year 2004 is expected to be in the range of $350 million to $400 million. The company expects net cash provided by operations to be in the range of $540 million to $570 million, and net cash required by investing activities to be in the range of $170 million to $190 million.
2003 Calendar Year Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Management intends to report summary earnings and cash flow information for the current calendar year so that the company's progress toward meeting its original 2003 financial commitments can be tracked. The company intends to announce this 2003 calendar-year information on Feb. 4, 2004.
The 2003 calendar-year guidance remains in the range of $1.30 to $1.40 per share, and excludes the following:
Including these items, the company's reported 2003 calendar year EPS guidance is expected to be in the range of 20 cents to 30 cents. This guidance excludes any potential goodwill writeoff related to the decision to exit the European wheat and barley business.
Management also reiterated that it expects to generate free cash flow in the 2003 calendar year in the range of $50 million to $100 million. Net cash provided by operations is expected to be in the range of $230 million to $260 million, and net cash required by investing activities is expected to be in the range of $160 million to $180 million.
 
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
     
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's exposure to lawsuits and other liabilities and contingencies, including those related to intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup, YieldGard, Roundup Ready and Bollgard are trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden products.
 
 
 
 
 
     The pretax income (loss) components of restructuring and other special items were as follows:

 
Exhibit 99.2

 
Exhibit 99.3

 
EXHIBIT 99.4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.5
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2003
* Sum of cash flows from operations and investing activities
 
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2003
** Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.
 
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2002
* Sum of cash flows from operations and investing activities
 
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2002
** Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.
 
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2001
Sum of cash flows from operations and investing activities
 
Key Financial Data  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2001
** Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.
 
Income Statements  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited
CROP YEAR 2003
* A reconciliation of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is provided in the Key Financial Data worksheet.
 
Income Statements  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited
CROP YEAR 2002
* A reconciliation of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is provided in the Key Financial Data worksheet.
 
Income Statements  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited
CROP YEAR 2001
* A reconciliation of earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) is provided in the Key Financial Data worksheet.
 
Items Included in Reported Earnings Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2003
 
Items Included in Reported Earnings Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2002
 
Items Included in Reported Earnings Dollars in millions, except per share amounts Unaudited CROP YEAR 2001
 
Balance Sheets  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions Unaudited
 
Cash Flow Statements  Crop Year Basis Dollars in millions, Year Ended August 31 Unaudited
 
1996  2003 Monsanto Biotechnology Trait Acreage  Crop Year Basis


