FILE:MON/MON-8K-20040915164542.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
        On September 9, 2004, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing that it increased its estimates for the Company's fiscal year 2004 free cash flow guidance and reaffirmed earnings per share ("EPS") on an on-going business basis. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
        The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measures of "free cash flow" and EPS excluding the effect of certain items. We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
        Our non-GAAP EPS financial measure may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release. We believe that our non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflect our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and are more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.
        The presentation of free cash flow and EPS excluding the effect of certain items is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
        We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
        Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such forward-looking statements may include as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Roundup is a trademark owned by Monsanto and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
        The following exhibit is filed herewith:
        Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated Sept. 9, 2004, issued by Monsanto Company
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 15, 2004

EXHIBIT 99
[GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED]
      MONSANTO COMPANY
800 NORTH LINDBERGH BLVD ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63167
RELEASE Immediately
CONTACT Bryan Hurley (314-694-8387)
MONSANTO MANAGEMENT RAISES FREE CASH FLOW GUIDANCE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2004; REAFFIRMS EARNINGS-PER-SHARE GUIDANCE
    ST. LOUIS (Sept. 9, 2004)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced that it is increasing estimates for the company's fiscal year 2004 free cash flow guidance, reflecting working capital improvements as the company has been implementing changes to improve its return on capital (ROC). New goals for ROC will be announced when the company reports fiscal-year earnings on Oct. 6.
        The company now expects that free cash flow will be in excess of $900 million for the 2004 fiscal year, compared with previous guidance estimating free cash flow at the $500 million level. The company expects net cash provided by operations to be in the range of $1.15 billion and net cash required by investing activities to be in the range of $250 million.
        The company also reaffirmed fiscal-year earnings-per-share (EPS) guidance of $1.55 to $1.60 on an ongoing business basis, excluding the effect of net restructuring charges, discontinued operations and related restructuring actions, and the write-off of goodwill associated with the global wheat business (estimated at $(0.36), $(0.02) and $(0.26), respectively). On a reported basis and including the estimated restructuring charges, discontinued operations and goodwill write-off, EPS guidance is in the range of $0.91 to $0.96 for the year, which is higher than the company's previous guidance as result of lower-than-anticipated restructuring charges.
        "Our strong cash generation is a testament to both the performance of our business and the value of our traits and seeds strategy," said Hugh Grant, Monsanto chairman, president and chief executive officer. "With this free cash flow growth, we're in the position to use the cash generated strategically, with a priority on returning value to our shareowners and creating additional growth."
        Monsanto also announced it had acquired the North American canola seed assets of Advanta Seeds from Advanta B.V., a company recently purchased by Fox Paine Capital Fund II International, L.P. The transaction closed yesterday.
        The addition of Advanta's canola seed business is intended to strengthen the company's trait and seed platform and to strengthen Monsanto's position in oilseeds, one of its three core crop areas. The terms of the purchase agreement were not disclosed.
        Monsanto also remains committed to its $500 million, three-year share repurchase plan. Through Aug. 31, 2004, Monsanto had repurchased $266 million of its common shares since the end of July 2003, when the repurchase program was authorized.
        Monsanto will report its complete fourth-quarter and fiscal-year 2004 earnings results Wednesday, Oct. 6.
        Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see: www.monsanto.com.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such forward-looking statements may include as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Note to editors: Roundup is a trademark owned by Monsanto and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
This release uses the non-GAAP financial measures of "free cash flow" and "earnings per share (EPS)" excluding the effect of certain items. The company defines free cash flow as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. A non-GAAP EPS financial measure (which the company sometimes refers to as EPS from ongoing business) may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, the company's non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in this release. The disclosure of free cash flow and EPS excluding the effect of certain items is intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The non-GAAP financial measures used in this release are reconciled to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP below.
Reconciliation of Non-GAAP EPS
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow


