FILE:MON/MON-8K-20040112160900.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On January 7, 2004, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for periods ended November 30, 2003. This press release, as well as the first quarter fiscal year 2004 unaudited supplemental data referenced in the press release, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on December 16, 2003, that a webcast conference call would be held on January 7, 2004, to discuss our November 30, 2003 financial and operating results as well as to discuss future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The data referenced in our press release and in the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http://www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Information and Presentations," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     The press release and other materials furnished herewith use the non-GAAP financial measures of "EBIT," "free cash flow" and earnings per share ("EPS") excluding the effect of certain items. We define "EBIT" as earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. EBIT is the primary operating performance measure for our two business segments. We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the company.
     We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
     Our non-GAAP EPS financial measure may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release and other materials furnished herewith. We believe that our non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflect our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and are more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes.
     The presentation of EBIT, free cash flow and EPS excluding the effect of certain items is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Table of Contents
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
     Certain statements contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibit, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: our exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
MONSANTO REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2004 FINANCIAL RESULTS
St. Louis  Jan. 7, 2004
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Our first-quarter performance was anchored by improved Roundup and branded corn seed results in Brazil. We're also pleased that our free cash flow generation remains strong. As we begin the major selling season for seeds in the United States, early indications point to another solid showing for Monsanto's branded seeds and technology traits in this major agricultural market."
 
First-Quarter 2004 Performance Summary:
increased 22 percent to $1 billion in the first quarter primarily because of higher sales of Roundup in Brazil and a shift in the timing of Roundup sales in the United States.
Net sales
The company recorded a first-quarter 2004 net loss of $(97) million, or a loss of $(0.37) per share, compared with last year's first-quarter net loss of $(18) million, or a loss of $(0.07) per share.
Net loss per share:
     Items affecting comparability for first-quarter 2004 included:
     In the first quarter of 2003, the only item affecting comparability was a net restructuring charge of $(0.03).
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were flat at $116 million in the first quarter. In the first quarter, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $60 million higher, primarily because of accruals for potential incentive payments to employees and higher costs associated with sales and marketing activities compared with the same period last year.
Cost management:
Free cash flow improved by $176 million, from $660 million in the first quarter of 2003 to $836 million in this year's first quarter. Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities. In the first quarter of 2004, net cash provided by operations was $661 million, compared with $729 million in the first quarter of 2003. Net cash provided (required) by investing activities was $175 million, compared with $(69) million in the first quarter of 2003. In addition, net cash (required) by financing activities for the first quarter of 2004 was $(81) million, compared with $(468) million in the first quarter of 2003. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Cash flow:
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
First-quarter 2004 net sales of $385 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment were $20 million higher than sales of $365 million recorded in last year's first quarter. This improvement was largely driven by a rebound in the performance of the Brazilian branded corn seed business and stronger corn seed sales in Mexico, where favorable weather and planting conditions prevailed. Higher revenues from cotton traits in Australia also contributed to the increase. A severe drought in Argentina that reduced sales of branded corn somewhat offset these gains.
EBIT (earnings (loss) from continuing operations before interest and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment declined to a loss of $(96) million in the first quarter, compared with EBIT of $45 million in the first quarter of 2003. Operational improvements  especially in the Brazilian branded corn seed business  were more than offset by the $69 million goodwill write-off related to the global wheat business and $23 million in restructuring charges. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment increased to $429 million in the quarter, up from $260 million in the comparable 2003 period, mainly because of higher sales of Roundup in the United States and Brazil. Higher volumes and a larger portion of higher-value branded Roundup sold in the United States were the primary contributors to the increase.
EBIT (earnings (loss) from continuing operations before interest and income taxes) for this segment improved to $30 million in the first quarter, compared with a loss of $(55) million in the first quarter of 2003. The increase was driven primarily by the same factors mentioned above, and these improvements were somewhat offset by charges of $7 million related to the fiscal year 2004 restructuring plan. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
 
Other Items of Note:
On Nov. 3, 2003, Monsanto announced that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) had granted registration for YieldGard Plus corn, the company's first double-stacked insect-protected product. Following the necessary regulatory clearances on a state level in the United States and receipt of the Japanese import approval, this technology will be made available for planting in the United States and Canada.
On Dec. 5, 2003, the company announced that the European Food Safety Authority had issued a favorable scientific opinion on Monsanto's NK603 Roundup Ready corn. The completion of this opinion allows this product to move forward for consideration for final approval by the European Commission and its member states.
On Jan. 5, 2004, Monsanto was named by the U.S. Trustee as a member of the Creditors' Committee for Solutia Inc.'s Chapter 11 reorganization process. Monsanto Vice President and Treasurer Robert A. Paley will serve on this nine-member committee, which is charged with representing the interests of unsecured creditors during Solutia's bankruptcy proceedings.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at www.monsanto.com. To access this supplemental information, please go to the "Financial Reports" section under the investor information page of the web site.
2004 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Guidance:
The company reiterated its EPS guidance for fiscal year 2004 in the range of $1.40 to $1.50, excluding the effect of the restructuring actions, discontinued operations associated with restructurings, and related goodwill write-offs (estimated at $(0.48), $(0.11) and $(0.26), respectively). On a reported basis and including the estimated restructuring charges and goodwill write-off, EPS guidance is in the range of $0.55 to $0.65.
On an ongoing business basis, roughly 30 percent of the fiscal year earnings are expected in the first half of the year, with 50 percent in the third quarter, and 20 percent in the fourth quarter.
Monsanto also reiterated that free cash flow generation for fiscal year 2004 is expected to be in the range of $350 million to $400 million. The company expects net cash provided by operations to be in the range of $540 million to $570 million, and net cash required by investing activities to be in the range of $170 million to $190 million.
2003 Calendar Year Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Management intends to report summary earnings and cash flow information for the periods ended Dec. 31, 2003, so that the company's progress toward meeting its original 2003 financial commitments can be tracked. The company intends to release this 2003 12-month information on Feb. 4, 2004.
 
The 2003 calendar-year EPS guidance remains in the range of $1.30 to $1.40 per share, and excludes the following:
Including these items, the company's reported 2003 calendar year EPS guidance is expected to be a loss in the range of $(0.03) to $(0.13) per share.
Management also said that it now expects to generate free cash flow in the 2003 calendar year of approximately $200 million. Net cash provided by operations is expected to be approximately $410 million, and net cash (required) by investing activities is expected to be approximately $(210) million.
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia, Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup, YieldGard and Roundup Ready are trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden products.
 
 
 
 
     
Reconciliation of EBIT to Loss From Continuing Operations:
     
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
* Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.

 
Ex 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


