FILE:MON/MON-8K-20041220121015.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, DC 20549 ---------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of report (Date of earliest event reported) December 17, 2004 Monsanto Company -------------------------------------- (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) Delaware 001-16167 43-1878297 - -------------------- --------------------- --------------- (State or Other (Commission (IRS Employer Jurisdiction of File Number) Identification No.) Incorporation) 800 North Lindbergh Blvd. St. Louis, Missouri 63167 ----------------------------------------- ----------- (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) (314) 694-1000 ------------------------------------------ (Registrant's Telephone Number, Including Area Code) Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition. On Dec. 20, 2004, we issued a press release announcing the establishment of a reserve as well as updated guidance for our first quarter and fiscal year 2005. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measures of "free cash flow" and earnings per share ("EPS") excluding the effect of certain items. We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation. Our non-GAAP ongoing EPS financial measure may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release. We believe that our non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of free cash flow and ongoing EPS is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit. Item 2.04 Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement. In the process of managing certain litigation and environmental liabilities of Solutia Inc. ("Solutia") as a result of Solutia's breach of its indemnity obligations to us, we have determined that it is probable that we will incur some expenses related to such litigation and environmental liabilities and that the amount of such expenses can be reasonably estimated. Accordingly, we made a decision on Dec. 17, 2004 that it would be appropriate to establish a reserve in the range of $285 million, which
will be reflected in our results for the first quarter and full year of fiscal 2005. The reserve is based on the best estimates by our management with input from our legal and other outside advisors at this time. We believe that this reserve, based on what is known today, represents the cost that we would expect to incur in connection with these litigation and environmental matters. However, our actual costs may be materially different than this estimate. The liabilities reflected in the reserve relate to third-party tort litigation and environmental remediation for sites Solutia never owned or operated and for sites beyond the property lines of its current operations. We expect to pay for such liabilities over time as the various legal proceedings are resolved and remediation is performed at the various environmental sites. See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings, and Item 8 - Note 22 - Commitments and Contingencies in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2004, for more information about these liabilities that we have previously reported. The reserve may not reflect all potential liabilities and expenses that we may incur in connection with Solutia's bankruptcy and does not reflect any recoveries we might receive through the bankruptcy process. The reserve arises out of our Sept. 1, 2000 separation agreement, as defined below, with a predecessor corporation, now known as Pharmacia Corporation ("Pharmacia"). As previously reported, pursuant to the Separation Agreement, we were required to indemnify Pharmacia for any liabilities primarily related to the Ag Business or the Chemicals Business, as those terms are defined below, including liabilities that Solutia had assumed from Pharmacia under the Distribution Agreement (as defined below) in connection with the spinoff of Solutia on Sept. 1, 1997, to the extent that Solutia fails to pay, perform or discharge those liabilities. Those liabilities remain the present responsibility of Pharmacia and are referred to as "Solutia's Assumed Liabilities." Solutia's Assumed Liabilities may include, among others, litigation, environmental remediation, and certain retiree liabilities relating to individuals who were employed by Pharmacia prior to the Solutia spinoff. As previously reported in our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2004, on Dec. 17, 2003, Solutia and 14 of its U.S. subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. In the Chapter 11 proceeding, Solutia is seeking relief from paying certain liabilities, including some or all of Solutia's Assumed Liabilities. Both immediately prior to and since its Chapter 11 filing, Solutia has failed to perform its obligations relating to some of Solutia's Assumed Liabilities. These obligations relate primarily to third-party tort litigation and environmental matters and are described in the Form 10-K. Pursuant to our contractual obligation to indemnify Pharmacia under the Separation Agreement, we have on an interim basis stepped in as Pharmacia's representative to assume the management and defense of such litigation and fund some of Solutia's environmental obligations. We expect to continue to pursue recovery of our costs for Solutia's Assumed Liabilities from Solutia in the bankruptcy proceedings. However, it is likely that we will not be able to recover all of our costs in the bankruptcy proceedings Relationships among Monsanto Company, Pharmacia Corporation, Pfizer Inc. and Solutia Inc. Prior to Sept. 1, 1997, a corporation that was then known as Monsanto Company ("Former Monsanto") operated an agricultural products business (the "Ag Business"), a pharmaceuticals and
nutrition business (the "Pharmaceuticals Business") and a chemical products business (the "Chemicals Business"). Former Monsanto is today known as Pharmacia. Pharmacia is now a wholly owned subsidiary of Pfizer Inc. ("Pfizer"), which together with its subsidiaries operates the Pharmaceuticals Business. Our business consists of the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the Ag Business. Solutia comprises the operations, assets and liabilities that were previously the Chemicals Business. The following table sets forth a chronology of events that resulted in the formation of Monsanto, Pharmacia and Solutia as three separate and distinct corporations, and provides a brief background on the relationships among these corporations. Solutia's Assumed Liabilities For additional information regarding our relationship with Solutia, Solutia's Assumed Liabilities and related environmental, litigation and other proceedings, please see the following sections of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Aug. 31, 2004 (the "2004 10-K"): o Item 1 - Business - Environmental Matters o Item 1 - Business - Relationships Among Monsanto Company, Pharmacia Corporation, Pfizer Inc. and Solutia Inc. o Item 3 - Legal Proceedings
o Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Financial Data - Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - Note 22 - Commitments and Contingencies. Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits Exhibit Number Description of Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated December 20, 2004
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. MONSANTO COMPANY (Registrant) Date: December 20, 2004 /s/ Jennifer L. Woods ------------------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Woods Title: Assistant Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description of Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated December 20, 2004

[GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED] MONSANTO COMPANY 800 NORTH LINDBERGH BLVD ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63167 RELEASE Immediately CONTACT Media: Lori Fisher (314-694-8535) Analysts: Scarlett Foster (314-694-8148) MONSANTO MANAGEMENT PROVIDES UPDATED FIRST-QUARTER AND FISCAL-YEAR 2005 EPS GUIDANCE; PLANS RESERVE FOR VARIOUS SOLUTIA-RELATED LIABILITIES ST. LOUIS (Dec. 20, 2004) - Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced that it plans to establish a reserve in its first-quarter 2005 results associated with the Solutia Inc. bankruptcy proceedings. The company also announced that first-quarter operations across key markets were stronger than previously estimated. As a result of these developments, Monsanto is updating its first-quarter and fiscal-year 2005 earnings per share (EPS) guidance. The company updated EPS guidance for the first quarter to 13 cents on an ongoing basis, which is a loss of 16 cents on an as-reported basis. Monsanto also increased 2005 fiscal-year earnings guidance on an ongoing basis to a range of $1.85 to $2.00 per share, or $1.56 to $1.71 on an as-reported basis. Previously, the company expected first-quarter results from the ongoing business to be flat with 2004 first-quarter results at 4 cents per share, or 43 cents on an as-reported basis. The previous EPS expectation for the full fiscal year was in the range of $1.77 to $1.90 per share on an ongoing basis, or $2.16 to $2.29 on an as-reported basis. (See reconciliation table with this news release.) The company also reaffirmed free cash flow for fiscal year 2005 is expected to be in the range of $600 million. (See reconciliation table with this news release.) "Business growth has been strong globally," said Hugh Grant, Monsanto chairman, president and chief executive officer. "In particular, corn seed sales in Brazil and Europe are up, as are revenues for our cotton traits in Australia." Grant said while it is still early in the selling season, indicators for Monsanto's U.S. corn seed and traits are encouraging. The company plans to book a reserve in its first-quarter 2005 results in the range of $285 million pretax in anticipation of certain litigation and environmental liabilities reverting to Pharmacia, and by extension, to Monsanto. This reserve is based on the best estimates by Monsanto's management with input from its legal and other outside advisors - more -
- 2 - at this time. Discussions between and among the various parties involved in the Solutia bankruptcy will continue for some time and a formal reorganization plan must ultimately be affirmed by several constituencies and the bankruptcy court. Monsanto believes that this reserve, based on what is known today, represents the cost that it would expect to incur for various litigation and environmental liabilities. However, given the current status of Solutia's bankruptcy proceedings, actual costs to Monsanto may be materially different than this estimate. "This Solutia-related reserve represents a small step on a path to reaching a final business resolution," said Grant. "Our highest priority has been and remains to protect the interests of Monsanto shareowners in this process, and we believe we can do so while continuing to work constructively with the other parties involved in this process to determine the best future course for all concerned." In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a brief conference call at 10 a.m. CST (11 a.m. EST) today. The call will focus on this new earnings guidance and the Solutia-associated reserve. Monsanto will host its regularly scheduled first-quarter fiscal year 2005 earnings call on Wednesday, Jan. 5, 2005. A simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at www.monsanto.com and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player(TM) prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks. Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information, please visit the company's web site at www.monsanto.com. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information: The statements contained in this release regarding first quarter and full-year fiscal 2005 EPS guidance, on both an ongoing and as reported basis, are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally - more -
- 3 - accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Reconciliation of as reported EPS to ongoing EPS Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow -oOo-


