FILE:MON/MON-8K-20040405125938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	
TEXT:
ITEM: 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
ITEM 12. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On March 31, 2004, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing financial and operating results for period ended Feb. 29, 2004. This press release, as well as the second quarter and first-half fiscal year 2004 unaudited supplemental data referenced in the press release, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, we announced in a press release issued on March 18, 2004, that a webcast conference call would be held on March 31, 2004, to discuss our Feb. 29, 2004 financial and operating results as well as future expectations. A slide presentation for use in conjunction with this conference call is furnished as Exhibit 99.3 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The data referenced in our press release and in the slide presentation for use in conjunction with our conference call will be posted to our website located at http://www.monsanto.com and can be viewed through the "Investor Information" page of the website under the tab "Financial Information and Presentations," although we reserve the right to discontinue that availability at any time.
     The press release and other materials furnished herewith use the non-GAAP financial measures of "EBIT," "free cash flow" and earnings per share ("EPS") excluding the effect of certain items. We define "EBIT" as earnings before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest and income taxes. EBIT is the primary operating performance measure for our two business segments. We believe that EBIT is useful to investors and management to demonstrate the operational profitability of our segments by excluding interest and taxes, which are generally accounted for across the entire company on a consolidated basis. EBIT is also one of the measures used by management in determining resource allocations within the company.
     We define "free cash flow" as the total of cash flows from operating activities and cash flows from investing activities. We believe that free cash flow is useful to investors and management as an indication of the ability of our business to generate cash. This cash can be used to meet business needs and obligations, reinvested into the company for future growth, or returned to our shareowners through dividend payments or share repurchases. Free cash flow is also used by management as one of the performance measures in determining incentive compensation.
     Our non-GAAP EPS financial measure may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our non-GAAP EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release and other materials furnished herewith. We believe that our non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflect our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and are more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes.
     The presentation of EBIT, free cash flow and EPS excluding the effect of certain items is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, these non-GAAP financial measures are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
Table of Contents
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
     Certain statements contained in this report, including the information contained in the Exhibits, such as statements concerning our anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, our actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: our exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for our Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of our estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of our products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of our research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; our ability to continue to manage our costs; our ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; our ability to obtain payment for the products that we sell; our ability to achieve and maintain protection for our intellectual property; the effects of our accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; our ability to fund our short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in our filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this report. We disclaim any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99.1
800 North Lindbergh Blvd St. Louis, Missouri 63167
Monsanto Company
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER 2004 RESULTS
St. Louis  March 31, 2004
Monsanto's fiscal year begins Sept. 1 and ends Aug. 31. References to the second quarter and first half refer to the three-month and six-month periods ended Feb. 28 or 29, depending on the year.
*
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The growth in our seeds and traits business in this first half of our 2004 fiscal year  especially in our corn seeds and traits business  gives us a strong foundation for continued growth. We believe we have a clear path established to achieve a 10 percent compounded annual growth rate in earnings per share on an ongoing business basis for 2005 and 2006."
 
Second-Quarter and First-Half 2004 Performance Summary:
increased 15 percent to $1.5 billion in the second quarter primarily because of the continuing growth of the Seeds and Genomics segment, particularly in the United States. For the quarter, sales of corn seeds and traits increased 46 percent, driven by increased sales of branded corn seed in the United States, Europe and Brazil, and higher trait revenues in the United States. Sales of soybean seeds and traits also improved, primarily driven by increased U.S. trait revenues.
Net sales
Though sales of branded Roundup herbicide in Brazil improved, net lower sales of Roundup in the United States led to a slight overall decline in the Agricultural Productivity segment for the quarter.
For the first half of 2004, net sales were $2.5 billion, an 18 percent improvement compared with net sales in the same period last year. The first-half sales increase was primarily driven by improvements in the corn and soybean business and a shift in the timing associated with biotechnology traits revenues, along with increased sales of Roundup herbicide in Brazil.
On a reported basis, second-quarter fiscal year 2004 net income was $154 million, or $0.57 per share, compared with net income of $100 million, or $0.38 per share for the same period in 2003.
Net income and earnings per share:
          Items affecting comparability for second quarter 2004 included:
          Items affecting comparability for the three-month period ending Feb. 28, 2003, included:
The company's first-half fiscal year 2004 net income of $57 million, or $0.21 per share, compared with net income of $82 million, or $0.31 per share, for the same period in 2003.
          Items affecting comparability for the first half of fiscal year 2004 included:
 
          Items affecting comparability for the six-month period ending Feb. 28, 2003, included:
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were essentially flat at $126 million for the second quarter and $242 million for the first half of fiscal year 2004.
Operating costs:
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased from $241 million to $275 million for the second quarter 2004, and from $458 million to $552 million for the first half of fiscal year 2004. SG&A for the second quarter includes the expenses associated with the institution of a value-capture program for Roundup Ready soybean traits in Brazil. Additionally, the increase includes higher accruals for employee incentives and other benefit-related expenses.
Year-to-date 2004 net cash provided by operations was $217 million, compared with $801 million through the six months ended Feb. 28, 2003. Net cash required by investing activities was $146 million through the first half of the fiscal year 2004, and $388 million for the same period in 2003. As a result, year-to-date free cash flow decreased from $413 million in the first half of 2003 to $71 million in this year's first half. The decrease in free cash flow was driven by payments related to the Solutia PCB litigation settlement and higher voluntary pension contributions. (For reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Cash flow:
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
Second-quarter net sales of $857 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment were approximately one-third higher than sales recorded in the same period in 2003. Within the Seeds and Genomics segment, sales of corn seeds and traits were up 46 percent as a result of increased sales of branded corn seed in the United States, Europe and Brazil, and higher revenues from corn traits in the United States. Soybean seeds and traits increased 18 percent because of higher revenues associated with soybean traits while branded soybean seeds sales were relatively flat.
 
The increase in sales of corn and soybean seeds and traits, as well as a shift in timing of biotechnology traits revenues, drove improvements for the first half of 2004, with overall sales increasing 23 percent in the segment, from $1,012 million in 2003 to $1,242 million in the first half of 2004.
EBIT (earnings from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment improved by $125 million in the second quarter, to $276 million from $151 million in the same period in 2003. The EBIT gains within Seeds and Genomics are due to higher overall sales of seeds and traits, notably driven by increased penetration of Monsanto's stacked corn traits. With continued growth in both corn and soybean seeds and traits, gross profit for the first half of 2004 for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased 28 percent compared with the previous year. The higher allocation of SG&A costs to the Seeds and Genomics segment, the global wheat goodwill impairment, and restructuring costs caused a decrease in EBIT for the first half of fiscal year 2004. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment for the quarter declined by $11 million, from $646 million in 2003 to $635 million in 2004. For the first half of fiscal year 2004, Agricultural Productivity sales increased by $151 million, primarily as a result of increased sales of branded Roundup herbicide in Latin America.
EBIT (earnings (loss) from continuing operations before cumulative effect of accounting change, interest, and income taxes) for the segment was $(16) million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, as compared to $55 million in the same period last year. The EBIT decline in the quarter was driven primarily by lower volumes of branded Roundup and a shift of sales volume to Monsanto's lower-priced brands of Roundup herbicide, as expected in the post-patent U.S. market. For the first half of 2004, EBIT for this segment was $14 million, as higher sales of branded Roundup herbicide in Brazil offset lower U.S. sales. The sales growth in the Agricultural Productivity segment was somewhat offset by higher restructuring expenses and increased other expenses. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
 
Other Items of Note:
Monsanto continues to make progress on a value-capture system for Roundup Ready soybeans in Brazil for the 2004 season. As of March 31, Monsanto has completed the major steps to establish the value-capture system, including developing a grain-based value-capture concept, signing contracts with the major global grain handlers, and completing enrollment of local elevators and processors. With those milestones complete, the company expects to begin receiving royalty payments in late April as the Brazilian harvest continues. The company expects the initial start-up costs associated with this program to offset any potential additional earnings for Monsanto in fiscal year 2004.
On March 29, Monsanto announced it had signed a definitive agreement for the sale of the assets associated with the company's European wheat and barley business to the French company, RAGT Genetique, S.A. Monsanto originally stated its intention to exit the European wheat and barley breeding business as a part of its October 2003 global restructuring plan.
On Feb. 23, Monsanto and Syngenta announced an agreement that resolves a patent interference proceeding in the U. S. Patent and Trademark Office involving transgenic broadleaf crops and Agrobacterium-mediated transformation technology. The agreement dismissed a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Syngenta that had been pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware.
On Feb. 3, the company won a key patent dispute regarding biotech-gene technology for protection of plants against insect damage. The decision by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office that Monsanto's scientists were the first to invent this important discovery ended a nearly eight-year Patent Office dispute with Mycogen Seeds, a subsidiary of Dow AgroSciences.
On Dec. 17, 2003, Solutia Inc. and 14 of its U.S. subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Subsequently, Solutia notified Pharmacia Corporation and Monsanto that it was repudiating its obligation to defend certain litigation that Solutia had been managing and to perform certain environmental remediation obligations under its 1997 spinoff agreement. Monsanto believes Solutia remains obligated to perform on its liabilities unless and until discharged from such obligations by the Bankruptcy Court. Monsanto has reported $14 million in other expenses in the first half of fiscal 2004 associated with Solutia-related liabilities and expenses. The company intends to file claims to recover some of the expenses through Solutia's bankruptcy proceedings.
Other supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, can also be found in the Financial Reports section under the investor information page of the company's web site at:.
www.monsanto.com
 
Outlook Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"With the North American planting season approaching, most of our seeds and traits sales are completed, giving us a strong start to our fiscal year. The primary season is still ahead for our U.S. Roundup business, and with the expected declines in that franchise, we believe it's prudent to maintain our current full-year guidance, although we do believe our results are likely to fall in the mid- to high-end of our range of $1.40 to $1.50 per share for our ongoing business."
2004 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
Monsanto management confirmed the company's EPS guidance for fiscal year 2004, expected in the range of $1.40 to $1.50 on an ongoing basis, excluding the effect of the restructuring actions, discontinued operations associated with restructurings, and related goodwill write-offs related to the global wheat business (estimated at $(0.46), $(0.13) and $(0.26), respectively). On a reported basis and including the estimated restructuring charges and goodwill write-off, EPS guidance is in the range of $0.55 to $0.65 for the year.
Management reiterated its expectation of generating free cash flow for fiscal-year 2004 in the range of $350 million to $400 million. The company expects net cash provided by operations to be in the range of $540 million to $570 million and net cash required by investing activities to be in the range of $170 million to $190 million. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow guidance, see note 1.)
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts are "forward-looking statements." These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to continue to manage its costs; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; general economic and business conditions; political and economic conditions due to threat of future terrorist activity and related military action; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup and Roundup Ready are trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup products in this release mean Roundup branded and other glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden products.
 
 
 
 
     
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.2
800 North Lindbergh Blvd St. Louis, Missouri 63167
Monsanto Company
 Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.
*

 
EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


