FILE:MON/MON-8K-20050921112301.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 21, 2005 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): September 21, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 001-16167 43-1878297 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (314) 694-1000 Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report) --------------------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On September 21, 2005, Monsanto Company issued a press release confirming its fiscal year 2005 earnings per share guidance and updating its fiscal year 2005 free cash flow guidance. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99, and incorporated herein by reference. The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits The following exhibit is filed herewith: Exhibit 99 Press Release,dated September 21, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company -------------------------------------- SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: September 21, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY By: /s/ Jennifer L. Woods -------------------------------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Woods Title: Assistant Secretary 2
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description of Exhibit - ---------- ---------------------- Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated September 21, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company 3

EXHIBIT 99 [GRAPHIC OMITTED] MONSANTO COMPANY 800 NORTH LINDBERGH BLVD ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63167 RELEASE Immediately CONTACT Media: Lee Quarles (314-694-4452) Lori Fisher (314-694-8535) Investors: Scarlett Foster (314-694-8148) MONSANTO CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER SAYS RECENT SUCCESS SETS THE STAGE FOR GROWTH IN 2006-2007 Monsanto Confirms Fiscal Year 2005 Earnings Per Share Guidance; Updates Fiscal Year 2005 Free Cash Flow Guidance SAN FRANCISCO (Sept. 21, 2005) - In a presentation today, Monsanto Company's (NYSE: MON) Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Terry Crews will outline paths for continued growth of Monsanto's strategy. Crews' presentation will be part of the 35th Annual Investment Conference sponsored by Banc of America Securities. Crews will note that the company's discipline over the last two years has resulted in an established seeds and traits platform for fiscal year 2005, and has reinforced its ability to grow in the years ahead. "Our strategic evolution has established Monsanto as the leading innovator in agricultural seeds and technology," says Crews. "The financial discipline we have exercised has also allowed us to establish a solid foundation which is poised for growth in the years ahead." Crews believes Monsanto's growth will come from two key areas: the accelerated growth of the company's core business primarily driven by its corn seeds and traits business, and through the recent acquisitions of the Seminis vegetable seed and Emergent cotton seed businesses. Fiscal Year 2005 Guidance Crews will also confirm earnings per share (EPS) guidance for fiscal year 2005 in range of $0.82 to $0.87 on a reported basis, and $2.00 to $2.05 on an ongoing basis. Additionally, Monsanto now expects that free cash flow will roughly break even for fiscal year 2005, compared with the previous estimate in the range of negative $400 million. Crews said the improvement in free cash flow was driven primarily by improvements in working capital compared with the previous estimate. Monsanto expects net cash provided by operations to be approximately $1.7 billion, net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $(1.7 billion), and net cash required by financing activities to be approximately $(550) million, resulting in a net decrease in cash and cash equivalents of approximately $(550) million. - more -
- 2 - Crews' presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the presentation will be available through Banc of America's conference web site today. To access the webcast of this presentation, go to: http://www.veracast.com/webcasts/bas/35th-annual-2005/id42307551.cfm. Following today's live broadcast, scheduled for 10:30 a.m. PDT (1:30 EDT), a replay of the webcast will be available for two weeks through this same link. Crews' presentation slides will also be archived at the Investor Relations section of Monsanto's website at http://www.monsanto.com. Monsanto will report its complete financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2005 on Wednesday, October 12. Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see: http://www.monsanto.com. Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information: - ----------------------------------------------------------- Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup(R) agricultural herbicides; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. - more -
- 3 - RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES ---------------------------------------------- The presentations of ongoing earnings per share (EPS) and free cash flow are not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position or comprehensive income (loss), and they are not measures of financial performance as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. The following tables reconcile ongoing EPS and free cash flow to the respective most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS: Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow: Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities. - oOo -


