FILE:MON/MON-8K-20051206165044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 6, 2005 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): December 6, 2005 (December 5, 2005) MONSANTO COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 001-16167 43-1878297 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (314) 694-1000 Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report) --------------------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On December 5, 2005, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing it is increasing estimates for the Company's first quarter earnings per share guidance. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99, and incorporated herein by reference. We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c)Exhibits The following exhibit is filed herewith: Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated December 5, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company -------------------------------------- SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: December 6, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY By: /s/ Jennifer L. Woods -------------------------------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Woods Title: Assistant Secretary
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description of Exhibit - ---------- ---------------------- Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated December 5, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company

EXHIBIT 99 [GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED] MONSANTO COMPANY 800 NORTH LINDBERGH BLVD ST. LOUIS,MISSOURI 63167 RELEASE Immediately CONTACT Media: Lee Quarles (314-694-2330) Investors: Scarlett Lee Foster (314-694-8148) MONSANTO COMPANY INCREASES FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE GUIDANCE Company Reconfirms Full-Year 2006 Free Cash Flow and Earnings Guidance ST. LOUIS (Dec. 5, 2005) - Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today that it is increasing its first-quarter 2006 earnings per share (EPS) guidance. Monsanto now expects that 20 cents per share of its full-year EPS on both a reported and ongoing basis will occur in the first quarter. The company revised its first-quarter EPS guidance upward from its earlier estimate for the quarter of approximately 10 cents per share. "While our first quarter historically has been a smaller part of our overall fiscal year, we believe we are off to a good start," said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Monsanto. "Early indications from our seeds and traits business suggest continued growth in the upcoming season, and this growth will be a key contributor to our leadership position in the years ahead." Stronger-than-expected results for cotton traits in Australia and for Roundup herbicides in Europe and the United States, in part related to earlier timing of demand particularly in Europe, are the key reasons driving the improvement in the quarter. In addition, Monsanto said that early order patterns for its corn seed and traits business indicate another strong season ahead for its U.S. business. Monsanto now believes that U.S. acres planted with its Roundup Ready and YieldGard Rootworm insect-protected corn trait technologies could be approximately 15 percent higher collectively than the company's previous estimate of a total of 38 million acres for both traits. The company noted that potential gains from its seeds and traits business could be partially offset by higher raw material costs from suppliers given the effect from the 2005 hurricane season. "We continue to monitor the effect of changes in petroleum-based products and natural gas prices on our raw materials," said Terry Crews, chief financial officer of Monsanto. "Our full-year guidance anticipates that our suppliers will pass on a portion of their higher raw material costs to us." Monsanto now expects that its full-year 2006 EPS guidance will be toward the upper end of its previously announced range of $2.35 to $2.50, on a reported and ongoing basis. The company confirmed
that its guidance for free cash flow in fiscal year 2006 remains the same in the range of $825 million to $900 million. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) Monsanto's Brett Begemann, executive vice president and international commercial lead, will discuss the earnings guidance as part of his presentation at the Citigroup Investment Research 16th Annual Chemical Conference in New York. Begemann will address investors at 8 a.m. (EST) on Wednesday, Dec. 7, as part of the conference. Begemann's presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the presentation will be available through the Citigroup Investment Research conference Web site. To access the webcast of this presentation, go to: http://www.veracast.com/webcasts/citigroup/chemicals05/47203184.cfm. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available for 30 days through the same link. Begemann's presentation slides with also be posted to Monsanto's Web site. Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see: www.monsanto.com. -oOo-
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information: Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results. Notes to editors: Roundup, Roundup Ready and YieldGard are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE Free Cash Flow: The presentation of free cash flow is not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position or comprehensive income (loss), and is not a measure of financial performance as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. The following table reconciles free cash flow to the respective most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. 1. Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow: Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities. With respect to the projected free cash flow guidance provided under the caption "Fiscal Year 2006 Target," Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control. - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Fiscal Year Total Monsanto Company and Subsidiaries: 2006 Target - ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Net Cash Provided (Required) by Operations $1,175-$1,250 Net Cash Provided (Required) by Investing Activities $(350) -------------- Free Cash Flow $825 - $900 Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities N/A -------------- Net Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Cash Equivalents N/A Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period N/A -------------- Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period N/A - ------------------------------------------------------------------==============


