FILE:MON/MON-8K-20050607080940.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 7, 2005 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 --------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 7, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter) Delaware 001-16167 43-1878297 (State of Incorporation) (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer Identification No.) 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (314) 694-1000 Not Applicable (Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report) --------------------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below): [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION. On June 7, 2005, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing it is increasing estimates for the Company's third quarter earnings per share guidance. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99, and incorporated herein by reference. The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. (c) Exhibits The following exhibit is filed herewith: Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated June 7, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company -------------------------------------- SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Dated: June 7, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY By: /s/ Jennifer L. Woods -------------------------------------------- Name: Jennifer L. Woods Title: Assistant Secretary 2
EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Description of Exhibit - ---------- ---------------------- Exhibit 99 Press Release, dated June 7, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company 3

EXHIBIT 99 [GRAPHIC OMITTED][GRAPHIC OMITTED] MONSANTO COMPANY 800 NORTH LINDBERGH BLVD ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63167 RELEASE Immediately CONTACT Media: Bryan Hurley (314-694-8387) Analysts: Scarlett Lee Foster (314-694-8148) MONSANTO RAISES THIRD-QUARTER 2005 ONGOING EARNINGS PER SHARE ESTIMATES ST. LOUIS (June 7, 2005) - Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced that it is increasing estimates for the company's third-quarter 2005 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance on the strength of the performance from the company's seeds and traits business. Driven by strong sales of biotech traits in the United States, increased corn seed sales, increased cotton trait revenues in India, and favorable timing of Roundup sales in the United States and Europe, Monsanto now expects ongoing EPS to be approximately $1.05 for the third quarter, or approximately $0.12 to $0.17 on an as-reported basis. The previous EPS expectation for the third quarter was roughly $1.00 per share on an ongoing basis, or in the range of $0.15 to $0.22 on an as-reported basis. The updated as-reported EPS guidance reflects more precise estimates for in-process R&D write-offs associated with the Seminis and Emergent acquisitions, which now have been completed. (See reconciliation table with this news release.) "Our seeds and traits business continues to generate positive momentum, and the results we've seen so far indicate that our core strategy is not only on track, but continues to outpace the expectations we had as our fiscal year began," said Hugh Grant, Monsanto's chairman, president and chief executive officer. The company's full-year ongoing EPS guidance and guidance for free cash flow remain unchanged. Monsanto will report its complete third-quarter earnings Wednesday, June 29. Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) is a leading industry provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm efficiency and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see www.monsanto.com. -oOo-
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information: Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup(R) agricultural herbicides; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. RECONCILIATIONS OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The presentation of ongoing earnings per share (EPS) is not intended to replace net income, cash flows, financial position or comprehensive income, and it is not a measure of financial performance as determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. The following table reconciles ongoing EPS to the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS: Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. - oOo -


