FILE:MON/MON-8K-20050105082515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 5, 2005, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2005 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2004. This press release, as well as the first quarter fiscal year 2005 unaudited supplemental data, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure may exclude the impact of restructuring charges, charges associated with the settlement of litigation, gains and losses on the sale of assets, and certain other items. The specific items that are excluded from, and result in, our ongoing EPS financial measure are clearly identified as such in the press release. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.
     The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Furthermore, this non-GAAP financial measure is not intended to replace net income (loss), cash flows, financial position, or comprehensive income (loss), as determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 5, 2005
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
      
MONSANTO REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER 2005 FINANCIAL RESULTS
St. Louis  Jan. 5, 2005
NM = Not Meaningful
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The value of our seeds and traits business is growing globally, as we saw good early performance in the first quarter not only in the United States but also in Brazil, Europe and Australia for this segment. The first quarter was a good start to the fiscal year, yet the most significant part of our annual business cycle is still to come. We're committed to delivering on our revised earnings guidance for the ongoing business, and on our free cash flow guidance, while returning cash to shareowners through vehicles like our recent dividend increase, share repurchases and investments that grow and expand the business."
 
First-Quarter 2005 Performance Summary:
increased 7 percent to $1.1 billion in the first quarter primarily because of continued strong sales of branded corn seed in Europe and Brazil, higher corn and soybean trait revenues in the United States, and higher cotton trait revenues in Australia. Sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment increased by 20 percent for the quarter. The higher revenues from seeds and traits were offset by a slight decline in the Agricultural Productivity segment as sales of Roundup and non-branded glyphosate herbicides were flat for the quarter, and there was a decrease in revenues from the company's other Agricultural Productivity products.
Net sales
Monsanto recorded a first-quarter fiscal year 2005 net loss of $40 million, or $(0.15) per share, compared with a net loss of $97 million, or $(0.37) per share, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004.
Net loss and earnings (loss) per share:
Items affecting comparability for first quarter of 2005 included:
Items affecting comparability for first quarter of 2004 included:
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses increased 14 percent to $132 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, compared to R&D expenses of $116 million for first-quarter fiscal year 2004. The increase in R&D expenses was driven by in-process R&D costs associated with the acquisition of the North American canola seed assets of Advanta Seeds, as well as the acquisition of Channel Bio Corp. by Monsanto's American Seeds, Inc. subsidiary. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased 6 percent to $260 million compared with the same period last year. The decrease was driven primarily by lower sales-and-marketing expenses in the United States and Argentina.
Operating costs:
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, bad-debt expense decreased 44 percent to $10 million for the quarter compared to the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 when the bad-debt expense reflected higher estimated uncollectible accounts receivable in Argentina.
For first-quarter fiscal year 2005, net cash provided by operations was $769 million, compared with $661 million in first-quarter fiscal year 2004. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1 million for first-quarter fiscal year 2005, compared to $175 million for the same 2004 quarter. As a result, free cash flow for first-quarter fiscal year 2005 was $770 million, compared to $836 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004. The decrease in free cash flow was driven by the Advanta Seeds and Channel Bio Corp. acquisitions, with employee incentives and more normalized levels of receivables compared to the prior year also factoring into the results. In the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, free cash flow was also affected by payments related to the Solutia-Anniston, Alabama, litigation settlement. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Cash flow:
 
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
      
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
First-quarter 2005 net sales of $461 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment were $76 million higher than sales of $385 million recorded in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004. This improvement was largely driven by the performance of the Brazilian branded corn seed business and stronger corn seed sales in Europe. Higher revenues from corn and soybean traits in the United States and cotton traits in Australia also contributed to the increase. Corn seeds and traits benefited from earlier-than-expected shipments of our products.
EBIT (earnings (loss) from continuing operations before interest and income taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment was $15 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2005, compared with EBIT of $(96) million in the first quarter of 2004. The improvement in EBIT for the quarter was driven by increased revenue for higher-margin traits and lower operating expenses. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
      
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment decreased slightly to $637 million for the quarter from $643 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004. Sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides were flat for the quarter, while revenues from all other Agricultural Productivity products decreased 3 percent.
 
EBIT (earnings (loss) from continuing operations before interest and income taxes) for this segment was $(225) million in the first quarter of 2005, compared with $30 million in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004. EBIT for this segment was affected by the Solutia-related charge, which drove the significant decrease for the quarter. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
Outlook Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer
Hugh Grant:
"I believe that the momentum created by our research and our first-mover advantage, coupled with our market leadership, puts us in a unique position. We're managing for momentum and acceleration. We're not taking anything for granted. We're focused on delivering on our commitments, driving seed and trait growth and returning value to our shareowners."
2005 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
On Dec. 20, 2004, Monsanto increased the company's EPS guidance for fiscal year 2005, expected to be in the range of $1.85 to $2.00 on an ongoing basis. The ongoing EPS guidance excludes both a 68 cent-per-share charge associated with the establishment of the Solutia-related reserve and a tax benefit of approximately 39 cents per share as a result of the loss incurred on the European wheat and barley business. On a reported basis, EPS is in the range of $1.56 to $1.71 per share for the full fiscal year. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
Management reiterated its expectation for free cash flow generation for fiscal year 2005, expected to be in the range of $600 million. The company expects net cash provided by operations to be approximately $1 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $400 million. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Other Items of Note:
On Dec. 20, 2004, Monsanto announced plans to establish a reserve associated with the Solutia Inc. bankruptcy proceedings. The charge is $284 million pretax and anticipates certain litigation and environmental liabilities reverting to Pharmacia, and by extension, to Monsanto. Monsanto believes that this charge, based on what is known today, represents the cost that it would expect to incur for various litigation and environmental liabilities. However, given the current status of Solutia's bankruptcy proceedings, actual costs to Monsanto may be materially different than this estimate.
On Dec. 14, 2004, Monsanto announced that a jury has found in favor of Monsanto and co-defendant Dow AgroSciences in a patent infringement case brought by Syngenta Seeds, Inc., in which Syngenta alleged infringement on three patents related to certain insect-protected corn traits.
On Dec. 7, 2004, Monsanto's Board of Directors increased the quarterly dividend on its common shares from 14.5 cents per share to 17 cents per share, or an increase of 17 percent. Since Monsanto was spun off as an independent company in August 2002, its Board of Directors has raised the dividend three times by a cumulative total of 42 percent.
On Nov. 16, 2004, Monsanto announced the formation of American Seeds, Inc. (ASI), a new holding company established to support regional seed businesses with capital, genetics and technology investments. ASI also announced it acquired Channel Bio Corp., a leading U.S. seed company based in Kentland, Indiana.
 
On Oct. 26, 2004, the European Commission approved the use of Monsanto's Roundup Ready Corn NK603 and its processed products as food and food ingredients under the Novel Foods Regulation. The decision authorized the use of NK603 for human consumption and completed the necessary steps for allowing the import, processing and use of NK603 grain in animal feed in the European Union.
On Oct. 13, 2004, a state circuit court in Mississippi granted Monsanto's request for partial summary judgment in a lawsuit brought by Delta and Pine Land (D&PL) Company, thereby eliminating a key element of D&PL's damage claim against Monsanto. D&PL had sought damages for lost stock market value of approximately $1 billion.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at www.monsanto.com. To access this supplemental information, please go to the Investor Information section of the web site.
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such forward-looking statements may include as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the effects of the company's accounting policies and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup and Roundup Ready are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to "Roundup" herbicides mean Roundup branded and other branded glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding all lawn-and-garden herbicides; references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based agricultural herbicides" mean both branded and nonbranded glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding all lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net loss.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Loss:
      
      
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
      
 
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities, as reflected in Monsanto's Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the projected free cash flow guidance provided under the caption "2005 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook," Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
      
      
(1) The restructuring charges for the three months ended Nov. 30, 2003, included prior plan restructuring reversals of $1 million (recorded in the Agricultural Productivity segment). Restructuring charges of $1 million for the three months ended Nov. 30, 2004, were recorded in the Agricultural Productivity segment.
In first quarter 2005, Monsanto recorded a deferred tax benefit of $106 million, of which $20 million was recorded in continuing operations, and the remaining $86 million was recorded in discontinued operations. The $20 million tax benefit recorded in continuing operations is related to the impairment of goodwill in the global wheat business as part of the fiscal year 2004 restructuring plan and thus is included in the table above. The tax benefit of $86 million recorded in discontinued operations was primarily related to the goodwill write-off at the date of adoption of SFAS 142, (SFAS 142), on Jan. 1, 2002, and thus is not reflected in the table above. Upon adoption of SFAS 142, the goodwill impairment was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, and the impairment for the wheat reporting unit was primarily related to the discontinued European wheat and barley business.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
      
(1) Does not include the $69 million adjustment of goodwill in fiscal year 2004.

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
* Attributed to relevant Monsanto legal entities. For example, a sale from the United States to a customer in Latin America is reported as a U.S. export sale.


