FILE:MON/MON-8K-20050406081614.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 6, 2005, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2005 financial and operating results for the period ended February 28, 2005. This press release, as well as the second quarter fiscal year 2005 unaudited supplemental data, are furnished as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto, respectively, and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
     The following exhibits are filed herewith:
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release, dated April 6, 2005, issued by Monsanto Company
Exhibit 99.2 Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2005 Supplemental Data  Unaudited
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 6, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
MONSANTO COMPANY REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER 2005 RESULTS
St. Louis  April 6, 2005
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The second quarter is the most important single quarter in our fiscal year. We believe the strong results this quarter, and so far this year, emphasize both the value of our leadership position in the seeds and traits market, and the continued opportunity we see as the momentum in our seeds and traits business helps propel our overall business growth."
 
Second-Quarter and First-Half 2005 Performance Summary:
increased 27 percent to $1.9 billion in the second quarter primarily because of higher corn and soybean trait revenues in the United States, increased corn seed sales in the United States and the Europe-Africa region, and higher revenues for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in all major world areas. For the quarter, sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment increased by 35 percent on the strength of increased seed and trait sales. There was also a 17 percent improvement in sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment, as sales of branded Roundup herbicides and other glyphosate-based herbicides increased.
Net sales
For the first half of 2005, net sales approached $3 billion, an 18 percent improvement compared with net sales in the same period last year. The drivers for the first-half sales included increases in U.S. corn and soybean trait revenues, and increased corn seed sales in the United States and the Europe-Africa region. Additionally, sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides outside the United States were higher for the first half of 2005, particularly in Brazil and Europe.
Monsanto recorded second-quarter fiscal year 2005 net income of $373 million, or $1.37 per share, compared with net income of $154 million, or $0.57 per share, in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004.
Net income and earnings per share:
     Items affecting comparability for second quarter of 2005 included:
     Items affecting comparability for second quarter of 2004 included:
The company's first-half fiscal year 2005 net income was $333 million, or $1.23 per share, compared with net income of $57 million, or $0.21 per share, for the same period in 2004.
     Items affecting comparability for the first half of fiscal year 2005 included:
     Items affecting comparability for the first half of fiscal year 2004 included:
 
Research-and-development (R&D) expenses were slightly higher at $127 million for the second quarter. For the first half of fiscal year 2005, R&D expenses were 7 percent higher at $258 million, driven by the write-off of in-process R&D costs associated with the acquisition of the North American canola seed businesses of Advanta Seeds, as well as the acquisition of Channel Bio Corp. by Monsanto's American Seeds, Inc. subsidiary.
Operating costs:
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses for second quarter 2005 were $303 million, compared to $272 million in the second quarter of 2004. For the first half of fiscal year 2005, SG&A expenses were $559 million, compared to $544 million in the same period in 2004. However, for the quarter and the first half, SG&A as a percent of net sales decreased versus the comparable prior periods. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2005, SG&A as a percent of sales was 16 percent. For the first half, SG&A as a percent of sales was 19 percent.
Year-to-date 2005 net cash provided by operations was $453 million, compared with $217 million through the first half of fiscal year 2004. Net cash provided (required) by investing activities was $47 million through the first half of the fiscal year 2005, and $(146) million for the same period in 2004. As a result, year-to-date free cash flow increased from $71 million in the first half of 2004 to $500 million in this year's first half. Free cash flow in the first half of fiscal year 2004 was affected by payments of $400 million related to the Solutia PCB litigation settlement. Additionally, the increase in free cash flow for the first half of fiscal year 2005 resulted from the timing of maturities of short-term investments, which was somewhat offset by Monsanto's seed acquisitions. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Cash flow:
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the global seeds and related trait business, and genetic technology platforms.
Second-quarter 2005 net sales of $1,181 million for the Seeds and Genomics segment were more than one-third higher than sales of $874 million recorded in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. This improvement was largely driven by increased revenues in both corn seed and traits and soybean seed and traits. Corn seed and traits increased 32 percent in the quarter-over-quarter comparison, reflecting higher corn seed and trait sales in the United States and corn seed sales in Europe. Soybean seed and traits net sales increased 40 percent, primarily driven by higher revenues for soybean traits in the United States.
 
For the first half of fiscal year 2005, the Seeds and Genomics segment recorded an increase in sales of 30 percent to approximately $1.7 billion, driven by the increased revenues in the corn seeds and traits and soybean seeds and traits businesses.
EBIT (net income (loss) before interest and taxes) for the Seeds and Genomics segment increased 240 percent, or $358 million, in the first half of fiscal year 2005, compared with the first half of 2004. The improvement in EBIT for the first half of 2005 was driven primarily by increased revenue for traits, which reflects increased penetration, pricing flexibility and the value of stacking more than one trait in a single seed. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and the company's animal agricultural businesses.
Net sales in the Agricultural Productivity segment for the quarter improved by 17 percent, driven by increased net sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in all major world areas. For the quarter, overall sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides increased, with increased sales of branded Roundup herbicide in all major world areas outside of the United States. Additionally, sales of non-branded glyphosate-based herbicides also contributed to the quarterly sales increase. The increase in sales for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides was offset by a slight decline in revenues from all other agricultural products, which decreased 2 percent in second quarter fiscal year 2005.
Compared with the first half of fiscal year 2004, the Agricultural Productivity segment recorded a slight increase in sales of 6 percent in the first half of fiscal year 2005, driven by increased revenues for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides. Sales of branded Roundup herbicide were down modestly for the first half of the fiscal year as higher sales outside the United States were offset by decreased U.S. sales due to lower pricing. For the first half of fiscal year 2005, higher non-branded glyphosate sales also contributed to the overall increase in sales.
EBIT for the Agricultural Productivity segment decreased $189 million in the first half of fiscal year 2005, compared with the first half of 2004. The decrease in EBIT for the first half of 2005 was driven primarily by the Solutia-related charge, which was somewhat offset by lower operating expenses and improved sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides. (For a reconciliation of EBIT, see note 1.)
 
Outlook Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Following the acquisitions of Seminis and Emergent, our focus is on the task of execution and acceleration as we look to build on the positive momentum in our seeds and traits business. We continue to remain focused and disciplined, but we're also more comfortable that our performance to date will allow us to reach the growth targets we've established for this year and successive years."
2005 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook:
On March 29, Monsanto provided updated EPS guidance for fiscal year 2005, with EPS on an ongoing business basis expected to be in the range of $2.00 to $2.05. The ongoing EPS guidance excludes estimated in-process R&D and other purchase accounting adjustments of $0.78 to $0.85 per share, the $0.67 per-share Solutia-related charge, the tax benefit of $0.39 per share as a result of the loss incurred on the European wheat and barley business, a $0.03 per-share charge for restructuring, and $0.01 per share income on discontinued operations. On an as-reported basis, Monsanto expects EPS to be in the range of $0.85 to $0.97. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.) Previously, Monsanto provided updated EPS guidance for fiscal year 2005, with EPS on an ongoing business basis expected to be toward the upper end of the $1.85 to $2.00 range, or in the range of $0.71 to $0.93 on an as-reported basis.
Monsanto expects cash from operations to be $1.2 billion. Including free cash to be used for the Seminis and Emergent purchases, the company expects net cash required by investing activities to be $2.1 billion. As a result, the company expects free cash flow to be negative $900 million for the fiscal year. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Other Items of Note:
On April 5, Monsanto announced completed the acquisition of Emergent Genetics' cotton business. Emergent will be integrated into Monsanto's existing commercial operations.
On April 5, Monsanto announced that it signed a non-binding letter of intent to sell its Enviro-Chem unit to the management of this subsidiary in a management buyout. The parties are currently working on a definitive agreement for the transaction, which is targeted to close by the end of Monsanto's 2005 fiscal year.
On March 24, Brazil's President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva signed a biosafety bill into law which establishes the regulatory process for the approval of biotech crops. This law demonstrates that Brazil supports a science-based regulatory system and is another indication of the growing acceptance of biotechnology around the world.
On March 24, Monsanto announced it had acquired selected agricultural assets of Icoria Inc. for $6.75 million in cash, installment and milestone payments, plus additional considerations. Monsanto acquired assets related to functional genomics and transgenic applications, which will be used in Monsanto's discovery program.
On March 23, Monsanto and the University of Nebraska-Lincoln signed an exclusive licensing agreement to develop crops tolerant to the broadleaf herbicide dicamba.
 
On March 18, Brazil's regulatory body, the National Commission for Biosafety, approved Monsanto's Bollgard insect-protected cotton.
On March 15, Monsanto announced it obtained U.S. regulatory clearance for its next-generation cotton technology, Roundup Ready Flex cotton. The U.S. regulatory clearance represents an important step forward toward the anticipated commercial launch for the 2006 growing season. Regulatory clearances in other key production and export countries are anticipated later this fiscal year.
On March 14, Monsanto announced a new collaborative relationship with Modular Genetics Inc. (MGI) to advance Monsanto's protein optimization platform. Monsanto gains an exclusive license to MGI's platform for use in agricultural applications. Applying this platform, Monsanto will be able to accelerate its ability to identify and develop new traits for platforms like agronomic traits, enhanced nutritional content and improved yield properties.
On March 1, Monsanto's American Seeds, Inc. subsidiary announced it added NC+ Hybrids, Inc. to its family of regional brands established to help serve farmer-customers with a technology-rich, locally-oriented business model.
Supplemental data to this news release, including slides that accompany the company's financial results conference call, are found at . To access this supplemental information, please go to the Investor Information section of the web site.
www.monsanto.com
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such forward-looking statements may include as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, currency impact, business and financial plans, the outcome of contingencies and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to Solutia Inc., litigation, intellectual property, regulatory compliance (including seed quality), environmental contamination and antitrust; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in exchange rates and other developments related to foreign currencies and economies; increased generic and branded competition for the company's Roundup herbicide; the accuracy of the company's estimates and projections, for example, those with respect to product returns and grower use of the company's products and related distribution inventory levels; the effect of weather conditions and commodity markets on the agriculture business; the success of the company's research and development activities and the speed with which regulatory authorizations and product launches may be achieved; domestic and foreign social, legal and political developments, especially those relating to agricultural products developed through biotechnology; the company's ability to successfully market new and existing products in new and existing domestic and international markets; the company's ability to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the company's ability to achieve and maintain protection for its intellectual property; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to revise or update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notes to editors: Roundup, Bollgard and Roundup Ready are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Unless otherwise indicated, references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" mean both branded and non-branded glyphosate-based herbicides, excluding all lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
 
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities, as reflected in Monsanto's Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the projected free cash flow guidance provided under the caption "2005 Earnings and Free Cash Flow Outlook," Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
In first quarter 2005, Monsanto recorded a deferred tax benefit of $106 million, of which $20 million was recorded in continuing operations, and the remaining $86 million was recorded in discontinued operations. The $20 million tax benefit recorded in continuing operations is related to the impairment of goodwill in the global wheat business as part of the fiscal year 2004 restructuring plan and thus is included in the table above. The tax benefit of $86 million recorded in discontinued operations was primarily related to the goodwill impairment loss at the date of adoption of SFAS 142, (SFAS 142), on Jan. 1, 2002, and thus is not reflected in the table above. Upon adoption of SFAS 142, the goodwill impairment was recorded as a cumulative effect of a change in
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 
accounting principle, and the impairment for the wheat reporting unit was primarily related to the discontinued European wheat and barley business.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 


