FILE:MON/MON-8K-20050831154610.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D. C. 20549 --------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): Aug. 31, 2005 (Aug. 25, 2005) MONSANTO COMPANY (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) Delaware 001-16167 43-1878297 (State or Other (Commission (I.R.S. Employer Jurisdiction of File Number) Identification Number) Incorporation) 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard St. Louis, Missouri 63167 (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (314) 694-1000 --------------------- Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: [ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.03. Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation. On August 25, 2005, Monsanto Company issued $314,490,000 principal amount of its 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025 (the "New Notes"), a form of which is filed as Exhibit 4.1 and incorporated herein by reference, in an exchange offer with holders of its 7 3/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "7 3/8% Notes"), which were issued in 2002. Monsanto also made cash payments to the exchanging holders of approximately $53 million, which included an early participation payment of approximately $4.6 million, which was paid to those holders who tendered their 7 3/8% Notes prior to the early participation date established under the exchange offer. Participation in the exchange was limited to holders of the 7 3/8% Notes who certified to Monsanto that they were "qualified institutional buyers," or "QIBs," as that term is defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The New Notes were issued to the QIBs in a private placement. The total exchange price for each $1,000 principal amount of 7 3/8% Notes tendered, using a yield of 4.608%, was $1,163.39, consisting of $1,000 principal amount of New Notes and $168.09 in cash. The interest rate on the New Notes is 5 1/2% per annum. For purposes of the exchange offer, the yield on the New Notes is 5.539% per annum, and the issue price of the New Notes was $995.30, which was determined by reference to the yield on the designated 30-year benchmark security as of the specified pricing time, which was 4.439% per annum. Exchanging holders also received accrued interest on the 7 3/8% Notes to the settlement date, or $2.05 per $1,000 principal amount of the 7 3/8% Notes exchanged. The New Notes will mature on August 15, 2025. Interest on the New Notes accrues from August 25, 2005 and will be payable semi-annually, in arrears, on February 15 and August 15, beginning February 15, 2006, to the persons in whose names the New Notes are registered at the close of business on the February 1 or August 1 preceding the respective interest payment dates, except that interest payable at maturity shall be paid to the same persons to whom principal of the New Notes is payable. Interest will be computed on the New Notes on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. The New Notes constitute a series of debt securities issued under an indenture dated as of August 1, 2002, between Monsanto and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee, which is filed as Exhibit 4.2 and incorporated herein by reference. The indenture does not limit the aggregate principal amount of debt securities that may be issued thereunder and provides that debt securities may be issued thereunder from time to time in one or more additional series. The indenture does not limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness. The New Notes have been issued in fully registered form and are issuable in denominations of $1,000 and whole multiples of $1,000. The New Notes are represented by a global security registered in the name of a nominee of The Depository Trust Company. The New Notes are not subject to any sinking fund. They are senior unsecured obligations of Monsanto, ranking equally with our other unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The New Notes are effectively subordinated to all liabilities of our subsidiaries, including trade payables. We may from time to time, without giving notice to or seeking the consent of the holders of the New 2
Notes, issue notes having the same ranking and the same interest rate, maturity and other terms as the New Notes. Any additional securities having such similar terms, together with the New Notes, will constitute a single series of securities under the indenture. The New Notes are redeemable, in whole or in part, at our option at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of: o 100% of the principal amount of the New Notes being redeemed, and o the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the New Notes being redeemed (not including any portion of any payments of interest accrued to the redemption date) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the notes to the redemption date. "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of those notes. "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations. "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (i) Banc of America Securities LLC, ABN AMRO Incorporated and Barclays Capital Inc. (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers (as defined below)) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), Monsanto will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (ii) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by Monsanto. "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third business day preceding that redemption date. "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for that redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on New Notes that are due and payable on interest payment dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the interest payment date to the 3
registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the New Notes and the indenture. Upon the occurrence of an event of default referred to in the indenture, the maturity of the New Notes may be accelerated, under the procedures and with the effects specified in the indenture. Monsanto has entered into a Registration Rights Agreement (the "Registration Rights Agreement") with the firms who served as dealer managers in connection with the issuance of the New Notes, under which Monsanto has agreed to cause a registration statement to be filed with the Commission, and to use its best efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective, relating to senior notes of Monsanto, to be issued in exchange for the New Notes, which shall be on the same financial terms as the New Notes, but which will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon the occurrence of a "Registration Default," as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement, the interest on the New Notes will be increased by 0.25 percent per annum during the 90 day period immediately following the occurrence of any such Registration Default, which rate will increase by 0.25 percent at the end of each subsequent 90-day period of such Registration Default, provided that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate will in no event exceed 0.50 percent per annum. The form of the Registration Rights Agreement is filed as Exhibit 4.3 and incorporated herein by reference. Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits. Monsanto Company furnishes the following additional exhibits relating to the issuance of the New Notes: 4.1 Form of 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025 of Monsanto Company. 4.2 Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2002, between Monsanto Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee, under which the 5 1/2% Senior Notes have been issued. 4.3 Form of Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 25, 2005, relating to 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025 of Monsanto Company. 4
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. Date: August 31, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY By: /s/ Christopher A. Martin ------------------------------------- Name: Christopher A. Martin Title: Assistant Secretary 5
EXHIBIT INDEX No. Document - --- -------- 4.1 Form of 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025 of Monsanto Company. 4.2 Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2002, between Monsanto Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee, under which the 5 1/2% Senior Notes have been issued. 4.3 Form of Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 25, 2005, relating to 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025 of Monsanto Company. 6

EXHIBIT 4.1 UNLESS THIS CERTIFICATE IS PRESENTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY (55 WATER STREET, NEW YORK, NEW YORK) TO THE ISSUER OR ITS AGENT FOR REGISTRATION OF TRANSFER, EXCHANGE OR PAYMENT, AND ANY CERTIFICATE ISSUED IS REGISTERED IN THE NAME OF CEDE & CO. OR SUCH OTHER NAME AS REQUESTED BY AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE DEPOSITORY TRUST COMPANY AND ANY PAYMENT IS MADE TO CEDE & CO., ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL SINCE THE REGISTERED OWNER HEREOF, CEDE & CO., HAS AN INTEREST HEREIN. THIS SECURITY WAS ORIGINALLY ISSUED IN A TRANSACTION EXEMPT FROM REGISTRATION UNDER SECTION 5 OF THE UNITED STATES SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 (THE "SECURITIES ACT") AND MAY NOT BE OFFERED, SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED IN THE ABSENCE OF SUCH REGISTRATION OR AN APPLICABLE EXEMPTION THEREFROM. EACH PURCHASER OF THIS SECURITY IS HEREBY NOTIFIED THAT THE SELLER MAY BE RELYING ON THE EXEMPTION FROM THE PROVISIONS OF SECTION 5 OF THE SECURITIES ACT PROVIDED BY RULE 144A THEREUNDER. THE HOLDER OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY AGREES FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE COMPANY THAT (a) SUCH SECURITY MAY BE RESOLD, PLEDGED OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED, ONLY (1)(a) TO A PERSON WHO THE SELLER REASONABLY BELIEVES IS A QUALIFIED INSTITUTIONAL BUYER (AS DEFINED IN RULE 144A UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144A, (b) INSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO AN INSTITUTIONAL ACCREDITED INVESTOR THAT, PRIOR TO SUCH TRANSFER, FURNISHES TO THE TRUSTEE, AS REGISTRAR FOR THE NOTES, A SIGNED LETTER CONTAINING CERTAIN REPRESENTATIONS AND AGREEMENTS RELATING TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF THE NOTES (THE FORM OF WHICH LETTER CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE TRUSTEE FOR THE NOTES), (c) IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 144 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT, (d) OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES TO A FOREIGN PERSON IN A TRANSACTION MEETING THE REQUIREMENTS OF RULE 904 UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OR (e) IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANOTHER EXEMPTION FROM THE REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES ACT (AND BASED UPON AN OPINION OF COUNSEL IF THE COMPANY SO REQUESTS), (2) TO THE COMPANY OR (3) PURSUANT TO AN EFFECTIVE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND, IN EACH CASE, IN ACCORDANCE WITH ANY APPLICABLE SECURITIES LAWS OF ANY STATE OF THE UNITED STATES OR ANY OTHER APPLICABLE JURISDICTION AND (B) THE HOLDER WILL, AND EACH SUBSEQUENT HOLDER IS REQUIRED TO, NOTIFY ANY PURCHASER FROM IT OF THE SECURITY EVIDENCED HEREBY OF THE RESALE RESTRICTIONS SET FORTH IN (A) ABOVE. Number R-1 [COMPANY LOGO] $314,490,000.00 CUSIP 61166W AD 3 5 1/2% Senior Note due 2025 Rate of Interest Maturity Date Original Issue Date - ---------------- ------------- ------------------- 5 1/2% August 15, 2025 August 25, 2005 MONSANTO COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company," which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to CEDE & CO., or registered assigns, the principal sum of THREE HUNDRED FOURTEEN MILLION FOUR HUNDRED NINETY THOUSAND DOLLARS on the Maturity Date shown above, and to pay interest thereon from August 25, 2005 or from the most recent Interest Payment Date (which term, as well as all other capitalized terms used herein, shall have the meanings assigned in such Indenture unless otherwise indicated) to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year, commencing February 15, 2006, at the rate of 5 1/2% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such payment, which shall be the February 1 or August 1 (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Note will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or by wire transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register, provided that such Person shall have given the Trustee written wire instructions at least five Business Days prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. This Note is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Notes"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, dated as of August 1, 2002 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any further successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Notes and of the terms upon which the Notes are,
and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Note is one of the series designated above, initially limited in aggregate principal amount to $314,490,000. Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Note set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to above by manual signature, this Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. MONSANTO COMPANY DATED: August 25, 2005 TRUSTEE'S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION By /S/ ROBERT A. PALEY This is one of the Securities of the ------------------------------ series designated therein referred Vice President and Treasurer to in the within-mentioned Indenture. ATTEST: The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., /S/ SONYA M. DAVIS as Trustee -------------------------- Assistant Secretary BY -------------------------------- Authorized Signatory
MONSANTO COMPANY 5 1/2% Senior Note due 2025 The Notes will be subject to redemption as follows: (i) The Notes will be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company at any time or from time to time at a redemption price equal to the greater of (a) 100% of the principal amount of the Notes being redeemed or (b) the sum of the present values of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest on the Notes being redeemed (not including any portion of any payments of interest accrued to the redemption date) discounted to the redemption date on a semi-annual basis (assuming a 360-day year consisting twelve 30-day months) at the Treasury Rate (as defined below) plus 20 basis points, plus in each case, accrued and unpaid interest on the Notes to the redemption date; (ii) "Comparable Treasury Issue" means the United States Treasury security selected by the Reference Treasury Dealer as having a maturity comparable to the remaining term of the Notes to be redeemed that would be utilized, at the time of selection and in accordance with customary financial practice, in pricing new issues of corporate debt securities of comparable maturity to the remaining term of those Notes; (iii) "Comparable Treasury Price" means, with respect to any redemption date, (i) the average of the Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations for the redemption date, after excluding the highest and lowest Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, or (ii) if the Trustee obtains fewer than three Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations, the average of all Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations; (iv) "Reference Treasury Dealer" means (a) Banc of America Securities LLC, ABN AMRO Incorporated and Barclays Capital Inc. (or their respective affiliates which are Primary Treasury Dealers) and their respective successors; provided, however, that if any of the foregoing shall cease to be a primary U.S. Government securities dealer in New York City (a "Primary Treasury Dealer"), the Company will substitute another Primary Treasury Dealer; and (b) any other Primary Treasury Dealer selected by the Company; (vii) "Reference Treasury Dealer Quotations" means, with respect to each Reference Treasury Dealer and any redemption date, the average, as determined by the Trustee, of the bid and asked prices for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed in each case as a percentage of its principal amount) quoted in writing to the Trustee by that Reference Treasury Dealer at 5:00 p.m., New York City time, on the third Business Day preceding that redemption date; (viii) "Treasury Rate" means, with respect to any redemption date, the rate per annum equal to the semi-annual equivalent yield to maturity of the Comparable Treasury Issue, assuming a price for the Comparable Treasury Issue (expressed as a percentage of its principal amount) equal to the Comparable Treasury Price for the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, installments of interest on the Notes that are due and payable on Interest Payment Dates falling on or prior to a redemption date will be payable on the Interest Payment Date to the registered holders as of the close of business on the relevant record date according to the Notes and the Indenture. The Securities of this series do not have the benefit of any sinking fund obligations. In the event of redemption of this Note in part only, a new Note or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Note and/or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Note, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Note or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Note is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Note for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Note are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. In the event of a Registration Default, as defined in the Registration Rights Agreement, dated August 25, 2005, among the Company and certain dealer managers, the interest rate borne by the Notes shall be increased ("Additional Interest") by 0.25 percent per annum during the 90 day period immediately following the occurrence of any such Registration Default, which rate will increase by 0.25 percent at the end of each subsequent 90-day period that such Additional Interest continues to accrue under any such circumstance, provided that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate will in no event exceed 0.50 percent per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate will revert to the original rate. Any additional interest will constitute liquidated damages and will be the exclusive remedy, monetary or otherwise, available to any Holder with respect to any Registration Defaults. If at any time the Depositary for this Note notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Note or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be eligible under the Indenture with respect to
this Note, and if a successor Depositary eligible under the Indenture for this Note is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's election that the Notes of this issue be represented by a Book-Entry Security shall no longer be effective with respect to this Note, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities shall authenticate and deliver, Securities in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Note in exchange for this Note. The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of this series shall no longer be represented by Book-Entry Securities. In such event the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of this series in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Book-Entry Security or Securities representing this series in exchange for such Book-Entry Security or Securities. No Holder of any Securities shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy under the Indenture, unless: (1) the Trustee shall have received written notice from such Holder of a continuing Event of Default in respect of such Securities; (2) the Trustee shall have received a written request from the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the series in respect of which the Event of Default has occurred to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as trustee under the Indenture; (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60 day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series. The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or the interest on this Note, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released. Prior to due presentment of this Note for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes (subject to Section 308 of the Indenture), whether or not this Note be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. This Note shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof.

Exhibit 4.2 ================================================================================ MONSANTO COMPANY to The Bank of New York as Trustee ==================================== INDENTURE ==================================== Dated as of August 1, 2002 Providing for Issuance of Senior Debt Securities in Series ================================================================================
NOTE: This reconciliation and tie shall not, for any purpose, be deemed to be a part of the Indenture. iii
INDENTURE INDENTURE, dated as of August 1, 2002, between MONSANTO COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (herein called the "Company"), having its principal office at 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri 63167, and The Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee"). Recitals of the Company The Company has duly authorized the execution and delivery of this Indenture to provide for the issuance from time to time of its senior unsubordinated unsecured debentures, notes or other evidences of indebtedness (herein called the "Securities"), to be issued in one or more series as provided in this Indenture. All things necessary to make this Indenture a valid agreement of the Company, in accordance with its terms, have been done. NOW, THEREFORE, THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH: For and in consideration of the premises and the purchase of the Securities by the Holders thereof, it is mutually agreed, for the equal and proportionate benefit of all Holders of the Securities or of series thereof, as follows: ARTICLE ONE DEFINITIONS AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF GENERAL APPLICATION Section 101. Definitions. For all purposes of this Indenture, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires: (1) the terms defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article and include the plural as well as the singular; (2) all other terms used herein which are defined in the Trust Indenture Act, either directly or by reference therein, have the meanings assigned to them therein; (3) all accounting terms not otherwise defined herein have the meanings assigned to them in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and, except as otherwise herein expressly provided, the term "generally accepted accounting principles" with respect to any computation required or permitted hereunder shall mean such accounting principles as are generally accepted at the date of such computation in the United States of America; and (4) unless the context otherwise requires, any reference to an "Article" or a "Section" refers to an Article or a Section, as the case may be, of this Indenture; and (5) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Indenture as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision. "Act", when used with respect to any Holder, has the meaning specified in Section 104. "Affiliate" of any specified Person means any other Person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by or under direct or indirect common control with such specified Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" when used with respect to any specified Person means the power to direct the management and policies of such Person, directly or indirectly, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
"Attributable Debt," in respect of any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, means, as of the time of determination, the total obligation (discounted to present value at the rate per annum equal to the discount rate which would be applicable to a capital lease obligation with like term in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles) of the lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of property taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance, water rates and other items which do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining portion of the initial term of the lease included in such Sale and Leaseback Transaction. "Authenticating Agent" means any Person authorized by the Trustee pursuant to Section 615 to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of one or more series. "Board of Directors" means either the board of directors of the Company or any duly authorized committee of that board. "Board Resolution" means a copy of a resolution certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company to have been duly adopted by the Board of Directors or pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors and to be in full force and effect on the date of such certification, and delivered to the Trustee. "Book-Entry Security" means a Security in the form prescribed in Section 303 evidencing all or part of a series of Securities, issued to the Depositary for such series or its nominee, and registered in the name of such Depositary or such nominee. "Business Day", when used with respect to any Place of Payment, means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday which is not a day on which banking institutions in that Place of Payment are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to close. "Commission" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, as from time to time constituted, created under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or, if at any time after the execution of this instrument such Commission is not existing and performing the duties now assigned to it under the Trust Indenture Act, then the body performing such duties at such time. "Company" means the Person named as the "Company" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Person shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Company" shall mean such successor Person. "Company Request" or "Company Order" means a written request or order signed in the name of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman or a Vice President, and by its Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, its Controller, an Assistant Controller, its Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, and delivered to the Trustee. "Consolidated Net Assets" means the aggregate amount of assets (less applicable reserves and other properly deductible items) after deducting therefrom all current liabilities (excluding any indebtedness for money borrowed having a maturity of less than 12 months from the date of the most recent consolidated balance sheet of the Company but which by its terms is renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower) all as set forth on the most recent annual or quarterly consolidated balance sheet of the Company filed with the Commission (or, if the Company no longer files reports with the Commission, published by the Company) and computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. "Corporate Trust Office" means the principal office of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate trust business shall be principally administered, which office at the date of original execution of this Indenture is located at 101 Barclay Street, New York, New York 10286, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, except that, with respect to presentation of the 2
Securities for payment or registration of transfers or exchanges and the location of the register, such term means the office or agency of the Trustee at which at any particular time its corporate agency business shall be conducted. "Debt" means a note, bond, debenture or other similar evidence of indebtedness for money borrowed. "Defaulted Interest" has the meaning specified in Section 308. "Depositary" means, with respect to the Securities of any series issuable or issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities, the Person designated as Depositary for such series by the Company pursuant to Section 301, which Person shall be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Depositary" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Depositary with respect to the Securities of such series. "Event of Default" has the meaning specified in Section 501. "Funded Debt" means all Debt having a maturity of more than 12 months from the date as of which the determination is made or having a maturity of 12 months or less but by its terms being renewable or extendable beyond 12 months from such date at the option of the borrower, but excluding any such Debt owed to the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary. "Holder" means a Person in whose name a Security is registered in the Security Register. "Indenture" means this instrument as originally executed or as it may from time to time be supplemented or amended by one or more indentures supplemental hereto entered into pursuant to the applicable provisions hereof, including, for all purposes of this instrument, and any such supplemental indenture, the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act that are deemed to be a part of and govern this instrument and any such supplemental indenture, respectively. The term "Indenture" shall also include the forms and terms of particular series of Securities established as contemplated by Section 301. "Indexed Security" means any Security which provides that the principal amount thereof payable at Stated Maturity may be more or less than the principal face amount thereof at original issuance. "Interest", when used with respect to an Original Issue Discount Security which by its terms bears interest only after Maturity, means interest payable after Maturity. "Interest Payment Date", when used with respect to any Security, means the Stated Maturity of an installment of interest on such Security. "Lien" means a pledge, mortgage, lien, encumbrance or security interest. "Maturity", when used with respect to any Security, means the date on which the principal of such Security or an installment of principal becomes due and payable as therein or herein provided, whether at the Stated Maturity or by declaration of acceleration, call for redemption or otherwise. "Officers' Certificate" means a certificate signed by the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, a Vice Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman or a Vice President, and by the Treasurer, an Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, an Assistant Controller, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, of the Company, and delivered to the Trustee. "Operating Property" means any real property or equipment located within the United States and used primarily for manufacturing or research and development by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries that has a net book value (after deduction of accumulated depreciation) in excess of 2.0% of Consolidated Net Assets, other than any such real property or equipment (i) which is financed by obligations issued by a State, Commonwealth, Territory or possession of the United States of America, or any political subdivision or governmental authority of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia or (ii) which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors of the Company, is not of material importance to the total business conducted by the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries taken as a whole. 3
"Opinion of Counsel" means a written opinion of counsel, who may be counsel for the Company, and who shall be acceptable to the Trustee. "Original Issue Discount Security" means any Security which provides for an amount less than the principal amount thereof to be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or if the Security is redeemed prior to the Maturity thereof. "Outstanding", when used with respect to Securities, means, as of the date of determination, all Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered under this Indenture, except: (i) Securities theretofore canceled by the Trustee or delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; (ii) Securities for whose payment or redemption money in the necessary amount has been theretofore deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent (other than the Company) in trust or set aside and segregated in trust by the Company (if the Company shall act as its own Paying Agent) for the Holders of such Securities; provided, that if such Securities are to be redeemed, notice of such redemption has been duly given pursuant to Section 1104 of this Indenture or provision therefor satisfactory to the Trustee has been made; (iii) Securities, except to the extent provided in Sections 1302 and 1303, with respect to which the Company has effected defeasance or covenant defeasance as provided in Article Thirteen; and (iv) Securities which have been paid pursuant to Section 307 or in exchange for or in lieu of which other Securities have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to this Indenture, other than any such Securities in respect of which there shall have been presented to the Trustee proof satisfactory to it that such Securities are held by a bona fide purchaser in whose hands such Securities are valid obligations of the Company; provided, however, that in determining whether the Holders of the requisite principal amount of the Outstanding Securities have given, made or taken any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action hereunder, or whether sufficient funds are available for redemption or for any other purpose, and for the purpose of making the calculations required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, (i) the principal amount of an Original Issue Discount Security that shall be deemed to be Outstanding shall be the amount of the principal thereof that would be due and payable as of the date of such determination upon acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, (ii) the principal amount of a Security denominated in one or more foreign currencies or currency units shall be the U.S. dollar equivalent, determined in the manner provided as contemplated by Section 301 on the date of original issuance of such Security, of the principal amount (or, in the case of an Original Issue Discount Security, the U.S. dollar equivalent on the date of original issuance of such Security of the amount determined as provided in (i) above) of such Security, (iii) the principal amount of any Indexed Security that may be counted in making such determination or calculation and that shall be deemed to be Outstanding for such purpose shall be equal to the principal face amount of such Indexed Security at original issuance, unless otherwise provided with respect to such Security pursuant to Section 301, and (iv) except for the purpose of making the calculations required by Section 313 of the Trust Indenture Act, Securities owned by the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether the Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, only Securities which a Responsible Officer of the Trustee actually knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Securities so owned which have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the Trustee the pledgee's right so to act with respect to such Securities and that the pledgee is not the Company or any other obligor upon the Securities or any Affiliate of the Company or of such other obligor. 4
"Paying Agent" means any Person authorized by the Company to pay the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities on behalf of the Company. "Person" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof. "Place of Payment", when used with respect to the Securities of any series, means the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities of that series are payable as specified as contemplated by Sections 301 and 1002. "Predecessor Security" of any particular Security means every previous Security evidencing all or a portion of the same debt as that evidenced by such particular Security; and, for the purposes of this definition, any Security authenticated and delivered under Section 307 in exchange for or in lieu of a mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall be deemed to evidence the same debt as the mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security. "Redemption Date", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the date fixed for such redemption by or pursuant to this Indenture. "Redemption Price", when used with respect to any Security to be redeemed, means the price at which it is to be redeemed pursuant to this Indenture. "Regular Record Date" for the interest payable on any Interest Payment Date on the Securities of any series means the date specified for that purpose as contemplated by Section 301. "Responsible Officer", when used with respect to the Trustee, means any vice president, any assistant secretary, any assistant treasurer, any senior trust officer, any trust officer or assistant trust officer, or any other officer of the Trustee customarily performing functions similar to those performed by any of the above designated officers and also means, with respect to a particular corporate trust matter, any other officer to whom such matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with the particular subject and who shall have direct responsibility for the administration of the Indenture. "Restricted Intercompany Securities" means any shares of stock or Debt of any Restricted Subsidiary owned or held by the Company or any other Restricted Subsidiary. "Restricted Operating Property" means any Operating Property owned or leased by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary. "Restricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary of the Company that owns any Operating Property. "Sale and Leaseback Transaction" means any arrangement with any bank, insurance company or other lender or investor (other than the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary) providing for the leasing by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary of any Operating Property (except a lease for a temporary period not to exceed three years by the end of which it is intended that the use of such Operating Property by the lessee will be discontinued), which was or is owned or leased by the Company or a Restricted Subsidiary and which has been or is to be sold or transferred, more than 120 days after the acquisition or the completion of construction and commencement of full operation thereof, by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary to such lender or investor or to any Person to whom funds have been or are to be advanced by such lender or investor on the security of such Operating Property. "Securities" has the meaning stated in the first recital of this Indenture and more particularly means any Securities authenticated and delivered under this Indenture. "Security Register" and "Security Registrar" have the respective meanings specified in Section 306. "Special Record Date" for the payment of any Defaulted Interest means a date fixed by the Trustee pursuant to Section 308. 5
"Stated Maturity", when used with respect to any Security or any installment of principal thereof or interest thereon, means the date specified in such Security as the fixed date on which the principal of such Security or such installment of principal or interest is due and payable. "Subsidiary" means any corporation of which at least a majority of the outstanding stock having by the terms thereof ordinary voting power for the election of directors of such corporation (irrespective of whether or not at the time stock of any other class or classes of such corporation shall have or might have voting power by reason of the happening of any contingency) is at the time directly or indirectly owned by the Company, or by one or more other Subsidiaries, or by the Company and one or more other Subsidiaries. "Trustee" means the Person named as the "Trustee" in the first paragraph of this instrument until a successor Trustee shall have become such pursuant to the applicable provisions of this Indenture, and thereafter "Trustee" shall mean or include each Person who is then a Trustee hereunder, and if at any time there is more than one such Person, "Trustee" as used with respect to the Securities of any series shall mean the Trustee with respect to Securities of that series. "Trust Indenture Act" means the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as in force at the date as of which this instrument was executed; provided, however, that in the event the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 is amended after such date, "Trust Indenture Act" means, to the extent required by any such amendment, the Trust Indenture Act of 1939 as so amended. "Unrestricted Subsidiary" means any Subsidiary other than a Restricted Subsidiary. "U.S. Government Obligations" has the meaning specified in Section 1304. "Vice President", when used with respect to the Company or the Trustee, means any vice president, whether or not designated by a number or a word or words added before or after the title "vice president". Section 102. Compliance Certificates and Opinions. Upon any application or request by the Company to the Trustee to take any action under any provision of this Indenture, the Company shall furnish to the Trustee such certificates and opinions as may be required under the Trust Indenture Act. Each such certificate or opinion shall be given in the form of an Officers' Certificate, if to be given by an officer of the Company, or an Opinion of Counsel, if to be given by counsel, and shall comply with the requirements of the Trust Indenture Act and any other requirements set forth in this Indenture. Every certificate or opinion with respect to compliance with a condition or covenant provided for in this Indenture shall include (1) a statement that each individual signing such certificate or opinion has read such covenant or condition and the definitions herein relating thereto; (2) a brief statement as to the nature and scope of the examination or investigation upon which the statements or opinions contained in such certificate or opinion are based; (3) a statement that, in the opinion of each such individual, he has made such examination or investigation as is necessary to enable him to express an informed opinion as to whether or not such covenant or condition has been complied with; and (4) a statement as to whether, in the opinion of each such individual, such condition or covenant has been complied with. Section 103. Form of Documents Delivered to Trustee. In any case where several matters are required to be certified by, or covered by an opinion of, any specified Person, it is not necessary that all such matters be certified by, or covered by the opinion of, only one such 6
Person, or that they be so certified or covered by only one document, but one such Person may certify or give an opinion with respect to some matters and one or more other such Persons as to other matters, and any such Person may certify or give an opinion as to such matters in one or several documents. Any certificate or opinion of an officer of the Company may be based, insofar as it relates to legal matters, upon a certificate or representations by counsel or an opinion of counsel, unless such officer knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate, representations or opinion with respect to the matters upon which such officer's certificate or opinion is based are erroneous. Any such certificate or representations of counsel or opinion of counsel may be based, insofar as it relates to factual matters, upon a certificate or opinion of, or representations by, an officer or officers of the Company stating that the information with respect to such factual matters is in the possession of the Company, unless such counsel knows, or in the exercise of reasonable care should know, that the certificate or opinion or representations with respect to such matters are erroneous. Where any Person is required to make, give or execute two or more applications, requests, consents, certificates, statements, opinions or other instruments under this Indenture, they may, but need not, be consolidated and form one instrument. Section 104. Acts of Holders; Record Dates. (a) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action provided or permitted by this Indenture to be given, made or taken by Holders may be embodied in and evidenced by one or more instruments of substantially similar tenor signed by such Holders in person or by agent duly appointed in writing; and, except as herein otherwise expressly provided, such action shall become effective when such instrument or instruments are delivered to the Trustee and, where it is hereby expressly required, to the Company. Such instrument or instruments (and the action embodied therein and evidenced thereby) are herein sometimes referred to as the "Act" of the Holders signing such instrument or instruments. Proof of execution of any such instrument or of a writing appointing any such agent shall be sufficient for any purpose of this Indenture and (subject to Section 601) conclusive in favor of the Trustee and the Company, if made in the manner provided in this Section. (b) The fact and date of the execution by any Person of any such instrument or writing may be proved in any reasonable manner which the Trustee deems sufficient and in accordance with such reasonable rules as the Trustee may determine. (c) The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix any day as the record date for the purpose of determining the Holders of Securities of any series entitled to give or take any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other action, or to vote on any action, authorized or permitted to be given or taken by Holders of Securities of such series. If not set by the Company prior to the first solicitation of a Holder of Securities of such series made by any Person in respect of any such action, or, in the case of any such vote, prior to such vote, the record date for any such action or vote shall be the 30th day (or, if later, the date of the most recent list of Holders required to be provided pursuant to Section 701) prior to such first solicitation or vote, as the case may be. With regard to any record date for action to be taken by the Holders of one or more series of Securities, only the Holders of Securities of such series on such date (or their duly designated proxies) shall be entitled to give or take, or vote on, the relevant action. (d) The ownership of Securities shall be proved by the Security Register. (e) Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or other Act of the Holder of any Security shall bind every future Holder of the same Security and the Holder of every Security issued upon the registration of transfer thereof or in exchange therefor or in lieu thereof in respect of anything done, omitted or suffered to be done by the Trustee or the Company in reliance thereon, whether or not notation of such action is made upon such Security. 7
Section 105. Notices, Etc., to Trustee and Company. Any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver or Act of Holders or other document provided or permitted by this Indenture to be made upon, given or furnished to, or filed with, (1) the Trustee by any Holder or by the Company shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder if made, given, furnished or filed in writing to or with the Trustee at its Corporate Trust Office, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, or (2) the Company by the Trustee or by any Holder shall be sufficient for every purpose hereunder (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to the Company addressed to it at the address of its principal office specified in the first paragraph of this instrument or at any other address previously furnished in writing to the Trustee by the Company, Attention: Treasurer. Section 106. Notice to Holders; Waiver. Where this Indenture provides for notice to Holders of any event, such notice shall be sufficiently given (unless otherwise herein expressly provided) if in writing and mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder affected by such event, at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not later than the latest date (if any), and not earlier than the earliest date (if any), prescribed for the giving of such notice. In any case where notice to Holders is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice, nor any defect in any notice so mailed, to any particular Holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice with respect to other Holders. Any notice mailed to a Holder in the manner herein prescribed shall be conclusively deemed to have been received by such Holder, whether or not such Holder actually receives such notice. Where this Indenture provides for notice in any manner, such notice may be waived in writing by the Person entitled to receive such notice, either before or after the event, and such waiver shall be the equivalent of such notice. Waivers of notice by Holders shall be filed with the Trustee, but such filing shall not be a condition precedent to the validity of any action taken in reliance upon such waiver. In case by reason of the suspension of regular mail service or by reason of any other cause it shall be impracticable to give such notice by mail, then such notification as shall be made with the approval of the Trustee shall constitute a sufficient notification for every purpose hereunder. Section 107. Conflict with Trust Indenture Act. If any provision hereof limits, qualifies or conflicts with a provision of the Trust Indenture Act that is required under such Act to be a part of and govern this Indenture, the latter provision shall control. If any provision of this Indenture modifies or excludes any provision of the Trust Indenture Act that may be so modified or excluded, the latter provision shall be deemed to apply to this Indenture as so modified or to be excluded, as the case may be. Section 108. Effect of Headings and Table of Contents. The Article and Section headings herein and the Table of Contents are for convenience only and shall not affect the construction hereof. Section 109. Successors and Assigns. All covenants and agreements in this Indenture by the Company shall bind its successors and assigns, whether so expressed or not. Section 110. Separability Clause. In case any provision in this Indenture or in the Securities shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 8
Section 111. Benefits of Indenture. Nothing in this Indenture or in the Securities, express or implied, shall give to any Person, other than the parties hereto and their successors hereunder and the Holders, any benefit or any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Indenture. Section 112. Governing Law. This Indenture and the Securities shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to conflicts of laws principles thereof. Section 113. Legal Holidays. In any case where any Interest Payment Date, Redemption Date, Stated Maturity or Maturity of any Security shall not be a Business Day at any Place of Payment, then (notwithstanding any other provision of this Indenture or of the Securities (other than a provision of the Securities of any series which specifically states that such provision shall apply in lieu of this Section)) payment of interest or principal (and premium, if any) need not be made at such Place of Payment on such date, but may be made on the next succeeding Business Day at such Place of Payment with the same force and effect as if made on the Interest Payment Date, the Redemption Date, or at the Stated Maturity or Maturity; provided, that no interest shall accrue for the intervening period. Section 114. Act of Holders when Securities are Denominated in Different Currencies. Whenever any action or Act is to be taken hereunder by the Holders of two or more Series or Issues of Securities denominated in different currencies, then, for the purposes of determining the principal amount of Securities held by such Holders, the aggregate principal amount of the Securities denominated in a currency other than United States dollars shall be deemed to be that amount of United States dollars that could be obtained for such principal amount on the basis of the spot rate of exchange for such currency as determined by the Company or by an authorized exchange rate agent and evidenced to the Trustee by an Officers' Certificate as of the date the taking of such action or Act by the Holders of the requisite percentage in principal amount of the Securities is evidenced to the Trustee. An exchange rate agent may be authorized in advance or from time to time by the Company, and may be the Trustee or its Affiliate. Any such determination by the Company or by any such exchange rate agent shall be conclusive and binding on all Holders and the Trustee, and neither the Company nor such exchange rate agent shall be liable therefor in the absence of bad faith. Section 115. Monies of Different Currencies to be Segregated. The Trustee shall segregate monies, funds, and accounts held by the Trustee hereunder in one currency from any monies, funds or accounts in any other currencies, notwithstanding any provision herein which would otherwise permit the Trustee to commingle such amounts. Section 116. Payment to be in Proper Currency. Each reference in any Security, or in the Authorizing Resolution relating thereto, to any currency shall be of the essence. In the case of any Security denominated in any currency (the "Required Currency") other than United States dollars, except as otherwise provided therein or in the related Authorizing Resolution, the obligation of the Company to make any payment of principal, premium or interest thereon shall not be discharged or satisfied by any tender by the Company, or recovery by the Trustee, in any currency other than the Required Currency, except to the extent that such tender or recovery shall result in the Trustee timely holding the full amount of the Required Currency then due and payable. If any such tender or recovery is in a currency other than the Required Currency, the Trustee may take such actions as it considers appropriate to exchange such currency for the Required Currency. The costs and risks of any such exchange, including without limitation the risks of delay and exchange rate fluctuation, shall be borne by the Company, the Company shall 9
remain fully liable for any shortfall or delinquency in the full amount of Required Currency then due and payable, and in no circumstances shall the Trustee be liable therefor. The Company hereby waives any defense of payment based upon any such tender or recovery which is not in the Required Currency, or which, when exchanged for the Required Currency by the Trustee, is less than the full amount of Required Currency then due and payable. ARTICLE TWO SECURITY FORMS Section 201. Forms Generally. The Securities of each series shall be in substantially the form set forth in this Article, or in such other form as shall be established by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in each case with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by this Indenture, and may have such letters, numbers or other marks of identification and such legends or endorsements placed thereon as may be required to comply with the rules of any securities exchange or Depositary therefor or as may, consistently herewith, be determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of the Securities. If the form of Securities of any series is established by, or by action taken pursuant to, a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Company Order contemplated by Section 303 for the authentication and delivery of such Securities. The definitive Securities shall be printed, lithographed or engraved on steel engraved borders or may be produced in any other manner permitted by the rules of any securities exchange on which the Securities may be listed, all as determined by the officers executing such Securities, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. Section 202. Form of Face of Security. [insert any legend required by the Internal Revenue Code and the regulations thereunder or a Depositary.] MONSANTO COMPANY [title of Security] No. $ CUSIP -------------------- ------- MONSANTO COMPANY, a corporation duly organized and existing under the laws of Delaware (herein called the "Company", which term includes any successor Person under the Indenture hereinafter referred to), for value received, hereby promises to pay to _______, or registered assigns, the principal sum of ___________ Dollars on _________, and to pay interest thereon from _____________ or from the most recent Interest Payment Date to which interest has been paid or duly provided for, semi-annually on _______ and ______ in each year, commencing __________________________, at the rate of [__]% per annum, until the principal hereof is paid or made available for payment. The interest so payable, and punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date will, as provided in such Indenture, be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest, which shall be the _______ or _______ (whether or not a Business Day), as the case may be, next preceding such Interest Payment Date. Any such interest not so punctually paid or duly provided for will forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on such Regular Record Date and may either be paid to the Person in whose name this Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest to be fixed by the Trustee, notice whereof shall be given to Holders of Securities of this series not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date, or be paid at any time 10
in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which the Securities of this series may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, all as more fully provided in said Indenture. Payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and any such interest on this Security will be made at the office or agency of the Company maintained for that purpose in , in such coin or currency of the United States of America as at the time of payment is legal tender for payment of public and private debts; provided, however, that at the option of the Company payment of interest may be made by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as such address shall appear in the Security Register or by wire transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register, provided that such Person shall have given the Trustee written wire instructions at least five Business Days prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date. Interest shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. [If the Security is payable in other than US dollars, insert the appropriate provision.] Reference is hereby made to the further provisions of this Security set forth on the reverse hereof, which further provisions shall for all purposes have the same effect as if set forth at this place. Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee referred to on the reverse hereof by manual signature, this Security shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be duly executed under its corporate seal. MONSANTO COMPANY By: ------------------------------------ Title: --------------------------------- Attest: -------------------------------- Title: --------------------------------- Section 203. Form of Reverse of Security. This Security is one of a duly authorized issue of securities of the Company (herein called the "Securities"), issued and to be issued in one or more series under an Indenture, as of August 1, 2002 (herein called the "Indenture"), between the Company and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (herein called the "Trustee", which term includes any successor trustee under the Indenture), to which Indenture and all indentures supplemental thereto reference is hereby made for a statement of the respective rights, limitations of rights, duties and immunities thereunder of the Company, the Trustee and the Holders of the Securities and of the terms upon which the Securities are, and are to be, authenticated and delivered. This Security is one of the series designated on the face hereof, limited in aggregate principal amount to $[_________]. [If the Securities are redeemable at the option of the Company, include redemption provisions.] [If the Securities are redeemable through a mandatory sinking fund, include the following:] [The sinking fund for the Securities of this series provides for the redemption on _____________ in each year beginning with the year ____ and ending with the year _____of [not less than $________ ("mandatory sinking fund") and not more than] $________ aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series. Securities of this series acquired or redeemed by the Company otherwise than through [mandatory] sinking fund payments may be credited against subsequent [mandatory] sinking fund payments otherwise required to be made [in the inverse order in which they become due].] 11
[If the Securities do not have a sinking fund, include the following:] The Securities of this series do not have the benefit of any sinking fund obligations. [If the Securities are subject to redemption, include the following:] In the event of redemption of this Security in part only, a new Security or Securities of this series and of like tenor for the unredeemed portion hereof will be issued in the name of the Holder hereof upon the cancellation hereof. [If the Securities are not subject to redemption, include the following:] The Securities of this series are not redeemable prior to maturity. The Indenture contains provisions for defeasance at any time of the entire indebtedness of this Security and/or certain restrictive covenants and Events of Default with respect to this Security, in each case upon compliance with certain conditions set forth in the Indenture. [If the Security is not an Original Issue Discount Security, include the following:] If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, the principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. [If the Security is an Original Issue Discount Security, include the following:] If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of this series shall occur and be continuing, an amount of principal of the Securities of this series may be declared due and payable in the manner and with the effect provided in the Indenture. Such amount shall be equal to [formula for determining the amount]. Upon payment (i) of the amount of principal so declared due and payable and (ii) of interest on any overdue principal, premium and interest (in each case to the extent that the payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable), all of the Company's obligations in respect of the payment of the principal of and premium and interest, if any, on the Securities of this series shall terminate. [If the Security is an Indexed Security, include the appropriate provision.] The Indenture permits, with certain exceptions as therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Holders of the Securities of each series to be adversely affected under the Indenture at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Securities at the time Outstanding of each series to be adversely affected. The Indenture also contains provisions permitting the Holders of specified percentages in principal amount of the Securities of each series at the time Outstanding, on behalf of the Holders of all Securities of such series, to waive compliance by the Company with certain provisions of the Indenture and certain past defaults under the Indenture and their consequences. Any such consent or waiver by the Holder of this Security shall be conclusive and binding upon such Holder and upon all future Holders of this Security and of any Security issued upon the registration of transfer hereof or in exchange herefor or in lieu hereof, whether or not notation of such consent or waiver is made upon this Security. No reference herein to the Indenture and no provision of this Security or of the Indenture shall alter or impair the obligation of the Company, which is absolute and unconditional, to pay the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security at the times, place and rate, and in the coin or currency, herein prescribed. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the transfer of this Security is registrable in the Security Register, upon surrender of this Security for registration of transfer at the office or agency of the Company in any place where the principal of and any premium and interest on this Security are payable, duly endorsed by, or accompanied by a 12
written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Security Registrar duly executed by, the Holder hereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Securities of this series and of like tenor, of authorized denominations and for the same aggregate principal amount, will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees. [If the Security is a Book-Entry Security, include the following:] If at any time the Depositary for this Security notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for this Security or if at any time the Depositary shall no longer be eligible under the Indenture with respect to this Security, and if a successor Depositary eligible under the Indenture for this Security is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's election that the Securities of this Issue be represented by a Book-Entry Security shall no longer be effective with respect to this Security, and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities shall authenticate and deliver, Securities in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of this Security in exchange for this Security. The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of this Series shall no longer be represented by Book-Entry Securities. In such event the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order, shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of this Series in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Book-Entry Security or Securities representing this Series in exchange for such Book-Entry Security or Securities. No Holder of any Securities shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to the Indenture or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy under the Indenture, unless (1) the Trustee shall have received written notice from such Holder of a continuing Event of Default in respect of such Securities; (2) the Trustee shall have received a written request from the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the series in respect of which the Event of Default has occurred to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as trustee under the Indenture; (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to the Trustee against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee during such 60 day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series. The Securities of this series are issuable only in registered form without coupons in denominations of $__________ and any integral multiple thereof. As provided in the Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, Securities of this series are exchangeable for a like aggregate principal amount of Securities of this series and of like tenor of a different authorized denomination, as requested by the Holder surrendering the same. No service charge shall be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge payable in connection therewith. No recourse shall be had for the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or the interest on this Security, or for any claim based hereon, or otherwise in respect hereof, or based on or in respect of the Indenture or any indenture supplemental thereto, against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or any successor corporation, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise, all such liability being, by the acceptance hereof and as part of the consideration for the issue hereof, expressly waived and released. 13
Prior to due presentment of this Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name this Security is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes (subject to Section 308 of the Indenture), whether or not this Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any such agent shall be affected by notice to the contrary. All terms used in this Security which are defined in the Indenture shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Indenture. The Indenture and this Security shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York without regard to the conflicts of laws principles thereof. Section 204. Form of Trustee's Certificate of Authentication. The Trustee's certificate of authentication shall be in substantially the following form: This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: ----------------------- The Bank of New York, As Trustee By: ------------------------------------- Authorized Signatory ARTICLE THREE THE SECURITIES Section 301. Amount Unlimited; Issuable in Series. The aggregate principal amount of Securities which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture is unlimited. The Securities may be issued from time to time in one or more series. There shall be established in or pursuant to a Board Resolution and, subject to Section 303, set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in an Officers' Certificate, or established in one or more indentures supplemental hereto, prior to the issuance of Securities of any series: (1) the title of the Securities of the series (which shall distinguish the Securities of the series from Securities of any other series); (2) any limit upon the aggregate principal amount of the Securities of the series which may be authenticated and delivered under this Indenture (except for Securities authenticated and delivered upon registration of transfer of, or in exchange for, or in lieu of, other Securities of the series pursuant to Section 305, 306, 307, 906 or 1107 and except for any Securities which, pursuant to Section 303, are deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder); (3) if other than denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof, the denominations in which Securities of the series shall be issuable; (4) the Person to whom any interest on a Security of the series shall be payable, if other than the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest; (5) the date or dates on which the principal of and premium, if any, on the Securities of the series is payable or the method of determination thereof; 14
(6) the rate or rates at which the Securities of the series shall bear interest, if any, or the method of calculating such rate or rates of interest, the date or dates from which such interest shall accrue or the method by which such date or dates shall be determined, the Interest Payment Dates on which any such interest shall be payable and the Regular Record Date for any interest payable on any Interest Payment Date; (7) the rights, if any, to defer payments of interest on any Securities of the series by extending the interest payment period, and the duration of such extensions; (8) if other than the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, the place or places where the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of the series shall be payable; (9) the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on any Securities of the series shall be payable if other than the currency of the United States of America and the manner of determining the equivalent thereof in the currency of the United States of America for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" in Section 101; (10) the period or periods within which, the price or prices at which, the currency or currencies (including currency units) in which and the other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series may be redeemed, in whole or in part, at the option of the Company; (11) if the principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series is to be payable, at the election of the Company or a Holder thereof, in one or more currencies or currency units other than that or those in which the Securities are stated to be payable, the currency, currencies or currency units in which payment of the principal of and any premium and interest on Securities of such series as to which such election is made shall be payable, and the periods within which and the other terms and conditions upon which such election is to be made; (12) if other than the principal amount thereof, the portion of the principal amount of Securities of the series which shall be payable upon declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502 or the method by which such portion shall be determined; (13) the obligation, if any, of the Company to redeem or purchase Securities of the series pursuant to any sinking fund or analogous provisions or at the option of a Holder thereof and the period or periods (or the methods of determination of such a period or periods) within which, the price or prices at which and the other terms and conditions upon which Securities of the series shall be redeemed or purchased, in whole or in part, pursuant to such obligation; (14) if the amount of payments of principal of or any premium or interest on any Securities of the series may be determined with reference to an index, formula or other method, the index, formula or other method by which such amounts shall be determined; (15) if the amount Outstanding of an Indexed Security for purposes of the definition of "Outstanding" is to be other than the principal face amount at original issuance, the method of determination of such amount; (16) if applicable, that either or both of Section 1302 or 1303 will not apply to the Securities of such series; (17) whether the Securities of the series shall be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities and, in such case, the Depositary with respect to such Book-Entry Security or Securities and the circumstances under which any Book-Entry Security may be registered for transfer or exchange, or authenticated and delivered, in the name of a Person other than such Depositary or its nominee, if other than as set forth in Section 306; (18) any additional, modified or different covenants or Events of Default applicable to one or more particular series of Securities; and 15
(19) any other terms of the series (which terms shall not be inconsistent with the provisions of this Indenture, except as permitted by Section 901(5)). All Securities of any one series shall be substantially identical except as to denomination and except as may otherwise be provided in or pursuant to the Board Resolution referred to above and (subject to Section 303) set forth, or determined in the manner provided, in the Officers' Certificate referred to above or in any such indenture supplemental hereto. All Securities of any one series need not be issued at the same time and, unless otherwise provided, a series may be reopened, without the consent of the Holders, for issuances of additional Securities of such series. If any of the terms of the series are established by action taken pursuant to a Board Resolution, a copy of an appropriate record of such action shall be certified by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company and delivered to the Trustee at or prior to the delivery of the Officers' Certificate setting forth, or providing the manner for determining, the terms of the series. Section 302. Denominations. The Securities of each series shall be issuable in registered form without coupons in such denominations as shall be specified as contemplated by Section 301. In the absence of any such provisions with respect to the Securities of any series, the Securities of such series shall be issuable in denominations of $1,000 and any integral multiple thereof. Section 303. Execution, Authentication, Delivery and Dating. The Securities shall be executed on behalf of the Company by its Chairman of the Board, its Chief Executive Officer, its President, its Chief Financial Officer or one of its Vice Presidents, under its corporate seal reproduced thereon attested by its Secretary or one of its Assistant Secretaries. The corporate seal and the signature of any of these officers on the Securities may be manual or facsimile. Securities bearing the manual or facsimile signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Company shall bind the Company, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Securities or did not hold such offices at the date of such Securities. At any time and from time to time after the execution and delivery of this Indenture, the Company may deliver Securities of any series executed by the Company to the Trustee for authentication, together with a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of such Securities, and the Trustee in accordance with the Company Order shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery such Securities; provided, however, that in the case of Securities of a series that are not to be originally issued at one time, the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery such Securities from time to time in accordance with such other procedures (including, without limitation, the receipt by the Trustee of oral or electronic instructions from the Company or its duly authorized agents, promptly confirmed in writing) acceptable to the Trustee as may be specified by or pursuant to a Company Order delivered to the Trustee. If the form or forms or terms of the Securities of the series have been established in or pursuant to one or more Board Resolutions as permitted by Sections 201 and 301, in authenticating such Securities, and accepting the additional responsibilities under this Indenture in relation to such Securities, the Trustee shall be entitled to receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel stating, (a) if the form or forms of such Securities have been established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 201, that such form or forms have been established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture; (b) if the terms of such Securities have been, or in the case of Securities of a series that are not to be originally issued at one time, will be established by or pursuant to Board Resolution as permitted by Section 301, that such terms have been, or in the case of Securities of a 16
series that are not to be originally issued at one time, will be established in conformity with the provisions of this Indenture, subject, in the case of Securities of a series that are not to be originally issued at one time, to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel; (c) that such Securities, when authenticated and delivered by the Trustee and issued by the Company in the manner and subject to any conditions specified in such Opinion of Counsel, will constitute valid and legally binding obligations of the Company enforceable in accordance with their terms, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors' rights and to general equity principles, and subject to such other exceptions as shall be acceptable to the Trustee; provided, that such Opinion of Counsel need express no opinion as to whether a court in the United States would render a money judgment in currency other than that of the United States; and (d) that all laws and requirements in respect of the execution and delivery by the Company of such Securities have been complied with. If such form or forms or terms have been so established, the Trustee shall not be required to authenticate such Securities if the issue of such Securities pursuant to this Indenture will affect the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under the Securities and this Indenture or otherwise in a manner which the Trustee determines would expose it to personal liability. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 301 and of the preceding paragraph, if all Securities of a series are not to be originally issued at one time, it shall not be necessary to deliver the Officers' Certificate otherwise required pursuant to Section 301 or the Company Order and Opinion of Counsel otherwise required pursuant to such preceding paragraph at or prior to the time of authentication of each Security of such series if such documents, with appropriate modifications to cover such future issuances, are delivered at or prior to the authentication upon original issuance of the first Security of such series to be issued. Each Security shall be dated the date of its authentication unless otherwise specified in or pursuant to the Board Resolution relating thereto. Section 304. Book-Entry Securities If the Company shall establish pursuant to Section 301 that the Securities of a series are to be issued in whole or in part in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities, then the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall, in accordance with this Section and the Company Order with respect to such series, authenticate and deliver one or more Book-Entry Securities in temporary or permanent form that (i) shall represent and shall be denominated in an aggregate amount equal to the aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series to be represented by one or more Book-Entry Securities, (ii) shall be registered in the name of the Depositary for such Book-Entry Security of Securities or the nominee of such Depositary, (iii) shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Depositary or pursuant to such Depositary's instruction and (iv) shall bear a legend substantially to the following effect (or such other legend as may be prescribed by the Depositary): "Unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive registered form, this Security may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary to the nominee of the Depositary or by a nominee of the Depositary to the Depositary or another nominee of the Depositary or by the Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary or a nominee of such successor Depositary." Each Depositary designated pursuant to Section 301 for a Book-Entry Security in registered form must, at the time of its designation and at all times while it serves as Depositary, be a clearing agency registered under the Exchange Act and any other applicable statute or regulation. Beneficial owners of part or all of a Book-Entry Security shall be subject to the rules of the Depositary as in effect from time to time. The Company, the Trustee and the Paying Agent shall not be responsible for any acts or omissions 17
of the Depositary, for any Depositary records of beneficial interests or for any transactions between the Depositary and beneficial owners. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, unless and until it is exchanged in whole or in part for Securities in definitive form, a Book-Entry Security representing all or a portion of the Securities of a series may not be transferred except as a whole by the Depositary for such series or to a nominee of such Depositary or by a nominee of such Depositary to such Depositary or another nominee of such Depositary or by such Depositary or any such nominee to a successor Depositary for such series or a nominee of such successor Depositary. If at any time the Depositary for any Securities of a series notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for the Securities of such series or if at any time the Depositary for the Securities of such series shall no longer be eligible under Section 306, the Company shall appoint a successor Depositary eligible under Section 306, with respect to the Securities of such series. If a successor Depositary eligible under Section 306 for the Securities of such series is not appointed by the Company within 90 days after the Company receives such notice or becomes aware of such ineligibility, the Company's election that the Securities of such series be represented by one or more Book-Entry Securities shall no longer be effective with respect to the Securities of such series and the Company shall execute and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive form in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Book-Entry Security or Securities representing such series in exchange for such Book-Entry Security or Securities. The Company may at any time and in its sole discretion determine that the Securities of any series issued in the form of one or more Book-Entry Securities shall no longer be represented by such Book-Entry Security or Securities. In such event the Company shall execute, and the Trustee, upon receipt of a Company Order for the authentication and delivery of definitive Securities of such series, shall authenticate and deliver, Securities of such series in definitive form and in an aggregate principal amount equal to the principal amount of the Book-Entry Security or Securities representing such series in exchange for such Book-Entry Security or Securities. If specified by the Company pursuant to Section 301 with respect to a series of Securities represented by a Book-Entry Security, the Depositary for such Book-Entry Securities may surrender a Book-Entry Security for such series of Securities in exchange in whole or in part for Securities of such series in definitive form on such terms as are acceptable to the Company and such Depositary. Thereupon, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, without service charge: (i) to each Person specified by such Depositary a new Security or Securities of the same series, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Person in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for such Person's beneficial interest in the Book-Entry Security; and (ii) to such Depositary a new Book-Entry Security in a denomination equal to the difference, if any, between the principal amount of the surrendered Book-Entry Security and the aggregate principal amount of Securities delivered pursuant to clause (i) above. In any exchange provided for in this Section, the Company will execute and the Trustee will authenticate and deliver Securities in definitive registered form in authorized denominations. Upon the exchange of a Book-Entry Security for Securities in definitive registered form, such Book-Entry Security shall be cancelled by the Trustee or an agent of the Company or the Trustee. The Trustee or such agent shall deliver such Securities to or as directed by the Persons in whose names such Securities are so registered. No Security shall be entitled to any benefit under this Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose unless there appears on such Security a certificate of authentication substantially in the form provided for herein 18
executed by the Trustee by manual signature of an authorized signatory thereof, and such certificate upon any Security shall be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Security has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Security shall have been authenticated and delivered hereunder but never issued and sold by the Company, and the Company shall deliver such Security to the Trustee for cancellation as provided in Section 310, for all purposes of this Indenture such Security shall be deemed never to have been authenticated and delivered hereunder and shall never be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture. Section 305. Temporary Securities. Pending the preparation of definitive Securities of any series, the Company may execute, and upon Company Order the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery, temporary Securities which are printed, lithographed, typewritten, photocopied or otherwise produced, in any authorized denomination, substantially of the tenor of the definitive Securities in lieu of which they are issued and with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as the officers executing such Securities may determine, as evidenced by their execution of such Securities. If temporary Securities of any series are issued, the Company will cause definitive Securities of that series to be prepared without unreasonable delay. After the preparation of definitive Securities of such series, the temporary Securities of such series shall be exchangeable for definitive Securities of such series upon surrender of the temporary Securities of such series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, without charge to the Holder. Upon surrender for cancellation of any one or more temporary Securities of any series the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery in exchange therefor one or more definitive Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. Until so exchanged the temporary Securities of any series shall in all respects be entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture as definitive Securities of such series and tenor. Section 306. Registration, Registration of Transfer and Exchange. The Company shall cause to be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee a register (the register maintained in such office and in any other office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment being herein sometimes collectively referred to as the "Security Register") in which, subject to such reasonable regulations as it may prescribe, the Company shall provide for the registration of Securities and of transfers of Securities. The Trustee is hereby appointed "Security Registrar" for the purpose of registering Securities and transfers of Securities as herein provided. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Security of any series at the office or agency of the Company in a Place of Payment for that series, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor. At the option of the Holder, Securities of any series may be exchanged for other Securities of the same series, of any authorized denominations and of a like aggregate principal amount and tenor, upon surrender of the Securities to be exchanged at such office or agency. Whenever any Securities are so surrendered for exchange, the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery, the Securities which the Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Securities issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities shall be the valid obligations of the Company, evidencing the same debt, and entitled to the same benefits under this Indenture, as the Securities surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Every Security presented or surrendered for registration of transfer or for exchange shall (if so required by the Company, the Security Registrar or the Trustee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer 19
in form satisfactory to the Company, the Security Registrar and the Trustee duly executed, by the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing. No service charge shall be made for any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, but the Company may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Securities, other than exchanges pursuant to Section 305, 906 or 1107 not involving any transfer. The Company shall not be required (i) to issue, register the transfer of or exchange Securities of any series during a period beginning at the opening of business 15 days before the day of the mailing of a notice of redemption of Securities of that series selected for redemption under Section 1103 and ending at the close of business on the day of such mailing, or (ii) to register the transfer of or exchange any Security so selected for redemption in whole or in part, except the unredeemed portion of any Security being redeemed in part. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Book-Entry Security shall be exchangeable pursuant to this Section 306 for Securities registered in the names of Persons other than the Depositary for such Security or its nominee only if (i) such Depositary notifies the Company that it is unwilling or unable to continue as Depositary for such Book-Entry Security or if at any time such Depositary ceases to be a clearing agency registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended and the Company does not appoint a successor Depositary within 90 days after receipt by it of such notice or after it becomes aware of such cessation, (ii) the Company executes and delivers to the Trustee a Company Order that such Book-Entry Security shall be so exchangeable or (iii) there shall have occurred and be continuing an Event of Default with respect to the Securities. Any Book-Entry Security that is exchangeable pursuant to the preceding sentence shall be exchangeable for Securities registered in such names as such Depositary shall direct. None of the Company, the Trustee, any Paying Agent or the Security Registrar will have any responsibility or liability for any aspect of the records relating to or payments made on account of beneficial ownership interests in a Book-Entry Security or for maintaining, supervising or reviewing any records relating to such beneficial ownership interests. Section 307. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost and Stolen Securities. If any mutilated Security is surrendered to the Trustee, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery in exchange therefor a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. If there shall be delivered to the Company and the Trustee (i) evidence to their satisfaction of the destruction, loss or theft of any Security and (ii) such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save each of them and any agent of either of them harmless, then, in the absence of notice to the Company or the Trustee that such Security has been acquired by a bona fide purchaser, the Company shall execute and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver, in lieu of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Security, a new Security of the same series and of like tenor and principal amount and bearing a number not contemporaneously outstanding. In case any such mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Security has become or is about to become due and payable, the Company in its discretion may, instead of issuing a new Security, pay such Security. Upon the issuance of any new Security under this Section, the Company may require the payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in relation thereto and any other expenses (including the fees and expenses of the Trustee) connected therewith. Every new Security of any series issued pursuant to this Section in lieu of any destroyed, lost or stolen Security shall constitute an original additional contractual obligation of the Company, whether or not the destroyed, lost or 20
stolen Security shall be at any time enforceable by anyone, and shall be entitled to all the benefits of this Indenture equally and proportionately with any and all other Securities of that series duly issued hereunder. The provisions of this Section are exclusive and shall preclude (to the extent lawful) all other rights and remedies with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities. Section 308. Payment of Interest; Interest Rights Preserved. Except as otherwise provided as contemplated by Section 301 with respect to any series of Securities, interest on any Security which is payable, and is punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date shall be paid to the Person in whose name that Security (or one or more Predecessor Securities) is registered at the close of business on the Regular Record Date for such interest at the office or agency maintained for such purpose pursuant to Section 1002; provided, however, that at the option of the Company, interest on Securities of any series that bear interest may be paid (i) by check mailed to the address of the Person entitled thereto as it shall appear on the Security Register or (ii) by wire transfer to an account maintained by the Person entitled thereto as specified in the Security Register, provided that such Person shall have given the Trustee written wire instructions at least five Business Days prior to the applicable Interest Payment Date. Any interest on any Security of any series which is payable, but is not punctually paid or duly provided for, on any Interest Payment Date (herein called "Defaulted Interest") shall forthwith cease to be payable to the Holder on the relevant Regular Record Date by virtue of having been such Holder, and such Defaulted Interest may be paid by the Company, at its election in each case, as provided in Clause (1) or (2) below: (1) The Company may elect to make payment of any Defaulted Interest to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest, which shall be fixed in the following manner. The Company shall notify the Trustee in writing of the amount of Defaulted Interest proposed to be paid on each Security of such series and the date of the proposed payment, and at the same time the Company shall deposit with the Trustee an amount of money equal to the aggregate amount proposed to be paid in respect of such Defaulted Interest or shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for such deposit prior to the date of the proposed payment, such money when deposited to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such Defaulted Interest as in this Clause provided. Thereupon the Trustee shall fix a Special Record Date for the payment of such Defaulted Interest which shall be not more than 15 days and not less than 10 days prior to the date of the proposed payment and not less than 10 days after the receipt by the Trustee of the notice of the proposed payment. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company of such Special Record Date and, in the name and at the expense of the Company, shall cause notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor to be mailed, first-class postage prepaid, to each Holder of Securities of such series at his address as it appears in the Security Register, not less than 10 days prior to such Special Record Date. Notice of the proposed payment of such Defaulted Interest and the Special Record Date therefor having been so mailed, such Defaulted Interest shall be paid to the Persons in whose names the Securities of such series (or their respective Predecessor Securities) are registered at the close of business on such Special Record Date and shall no longer be payable pursuant to the following Clause (2). (2) The Company may make payment of any Defaulted Interest on the Securities of any series in any other lawful manner not inconsistent with the requirements of any securities exchange on which such Securities may be listed, and upon such notice as may be required by such exchange, if, after notice given by the Company to the Trustee of the proposed payment pursuant to this Clause, such manner of payment shall be deemed practicable by the Trustee. 21
Subject to the foregoing provisions of this Section, each Security delivered under this Indenture upon registration of transfer of or in exchange for or in lieu of any other Security shall carry the rights to interest accrued and unpaid, and to accrue, which were carried by such other Security. Section 309. Persons Deemed Owners. Prior to due presentment of a Security for registration of transfer, the Company, the Trustee and any agent of the Company or the Trustee may treat the Person in whose name such Security is registered as the owner of such Security for the purpose of receiving payment of principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 308) any interest on such Security and for all other purposes whatsoever, whether or not such Security be overdue, and neither the Company, the Trustee nor any agent of the Company or the Trustee shall be affected by notice to the contrary. Section 310. Cancellation. All Securities surrendered for payment, redemption, registration of transfer or exchange or for credit against any sinking fund payment shall, if surrendered to any Person other than the Trustee, be delivered to the Trustee. All Securities so delivered and any Securities surrendered directly to the Trustee for any such purpose shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee and such cancellation shall be noted conspicuously on each such Security. The Company may at any time deliver to the Trustee for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated and delivered hereunder which the Company may have acquired in any manner whatsoever, and may deliver to the Trustee (or to any other Person for delivery to the Trustee) for cancellation any Securities previously authenticated hereunder which the Company has not issued and sold, and all Securities so delivered shall be promptly canceled by the Trustee. No Securities shall be authenticated in lieu of or in exchange for any Securities canceled as provided in this Section, except as expressly permitted by this Indenture. All canceled Securities held by the Trustee shall be disposed of in accordance with the Trustee's customary procedures. Section 311. Computation of Interest. Except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series, interest on the Securities of each series shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Section 312. CUSIP Numbers. The Company in issuing the Securities may use "CUSIP" numbers (if then generally in use), and, if so, the Trustee shall use "CUSIP" numbers in notices of redemption as a convenience to Holders; provided, that any such notice may state that no representation is made as to the correctness of such numbers either as printed on the Securities or as contained in any notice of a redemption and that reliance may be placed only on the other identification numbers printed on the Securities, and any such redemption shall not be affected by any defect in or omission of such CUSIP numbers. The Company will promptly notify the Trustee of any change in the CUSIP numbers. ARTICLE FOUR SATISFACTION AND DISCHARGE Section 401. Satisfaction and Discharge of Indenture. This Indenture shall upon Company Request cease to be of further effect with respect to Securities of any series (except as to any surviving rights of registration of transfer, exchange or replacement of such Securities herein expressly provided for), and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Securities, when (1) either 22
(A) all such Securities theretofore authenticated and delivered (other than (i) such Securities which have been destroyed, lost or stolen and which have been replaced or paid as provided in Section 307 and (ii) such Securities for whose payment money has theretofore been deposited in trust or segregated and held in trust by the Company and thereafter repaid to the Company or discharged from such trust, as provided in Section 1003) have been delivered to the Trustee for cancellation; or (B) all such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation (i) have become due and payable, or (ii) will become due and payable at their Stated Maturity within one year, or (iii) are to be called for redemption within one year under arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the giving of notice of redemption by the Trustee in the name, and at the expense, of the Company, and the Company, in the case of (B)(i), (ii) or (iii) above, has deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee as trust funds in trust for the purpose an amount in the currency or currencies or currency unit or units in which such Securities are payable sufficient to pay and discharge the entire indebtedness on such Securities not theretofore delivered to the Trustee for cancellation, for principal and any premium and interest to the date of such deposit (in the case of Securities which have become due and payable) or to the Stated Maturity or Redemption Date, as the case may be; (2) the Company has paid or caused to be paid all other sums payable hereunder by the Company; and (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture with respect to such Securities have been complied with. Notwithstanding the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture, the obligations of the Company to the Trustee under Section 607 and to any Authenticating Agent under Section 615 and, if money shall have been deposited with the Trustee pursuant to subclause (B) of Clause (1) of this Section, the obligations of the Trustee under Section 402, Article Six and the last paragraph of Section 1003 shall survive. Section 402. Application of Trust Money. All money and U.S. Governmental Obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Section 401 (or into which such money and U.S. Governmental Obligations are reinvested) shall be held in trust and applied by it, in accordance with the provisions of the Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Persons entitled thereto, of the principal (and premium, if any) and interest for payment of which such money has been deposited with the Trustee; but such money and U.S. Governmental Obligations need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. ARTICLE FIVE REMEDIES Section 501. Events of Default. "Event of Default", wherever used herein with respect to Securities of any series, means any one of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether it shall be voluntary or involuntary or be effected by operation of law or pursuant to any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body, unless it is inapplicable to a particular series or is specifically deleted or modified in the Board Resolution (or action taken pursuant thereto), Officers' Certificate or supplemental indenture under which such series of Securities is issued or has been modified in an indenture supplemental hereto): 23
(1) default in the payment of any interest upon any Security of that series when it becomes due and payable, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (2) default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security of such series at its Maturity; or (3) default in the deposit of any sinking fund installment in respect of such series, when and as payable by the terms of Section 1201 hereof or by the terms of a Security of that series, and continuance of such default for a period of 30 days; or (4) default in the performance, or breach, of any covenant or warranty of the Company in this Indenture with respect to Securities of that series (other than a covenant or warranty a default in whose performance or whose breach is elsewhere in this Section specifically dealt with), and continuance of such default or breach for a period of 90 days after there has been given, by registered or certified mail, to the Company by the Trustee or to the Company and the Trustee by the Holders of at least 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of all series affected thereby a written notice specifying such default or breach and requiring it to be remedied and stating that such notice is a "Notice of Default" hereunder; or (5) the entry by a court having jurisdiction in the premises of (A) a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or (B) a decree or order adjudging the Company a bankrupt or insolvent, or approving as properly filed a petition seeking reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition of or in respect of the Company under any applicable federal or state law, or appointing a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or ordering the winding up or liquidation of its affairs, and the continuance of any such decree or order for relief or any such other decree or order unstayed and in effect for a period of 60 consecutive days; or (6) the commencement by the Company of a voluntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or of any other case or proceeding to be adjudicated a bankrupt or insolvent, or the consent by it to the entry of a decree or order for relief in respect of the Company in an involuntary case or proceeding under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization or other similar law or to the commencement of any bankruptcy or insolvency case or proceeding against it, or the filing by it of a petition or answer or consent seeking reorganization or relief under any applicable federal or state law, or the consent by it to the filing of such petition or to the appointment of or taking possession by a custodian, receiver, liquidator, assignee, trustee, sequestrator or other similar official of the Company or of any substantial part of its property, or the making by it of an assignment for the benefit of creditors, or the admission by it in writing of its inability to pay its debts generally as they become due, or the taking of corporate action by the Company in furtherance of any such action; or (7) any other Event of Default provided with respect to Securities of that series. Section 502. Acceleration of Maturity; Rescission and Annulment. If an Event of Default (other than an Event of Default described in clause 5 or 6 of Section 501) with respect to Securities of one or more series at the time Outstanding occurs and is continuing, then in every such case the Trustee or the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of the affected series may declare the principal amount (or, if any of the Securities of that series are Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such portion of the principal amount of such Securities as may be specified in the terms thereof) of all of the Securities of such series to be due and payable immediately, by a notice in writing to the Company (and to the Trustee if given by Holders), and upon any such declaration such principal amount (or, in the case of Original Issue Discount Securities or Indexed Securities, such specified amount) shall become immediately due and payable. 24
At any time after such a declaration of acceleration with respect to Securities of one or more series has been made and before a judgment or decree for payment of the money due has been obtained by the Trustee as hereinafter in this Article provided, the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series, by written notice to the Company and the Trustee, may rescind and annul such declaration and its consequences if (1) the Company has paid or deposited with the Trustee a sum sufficient to pay (A) all overdue interest on all Securities of those series, (B) the principal of (and premium, if any, on) any Securities of those series which have become due otherwise than by such declaration of acceleration and any interest thereon at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, (C) to the extent that payment of such interest is lawful, interest upon overdue interest at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and (D) all sums paid or advanced by the Trustee hereunder and the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel; and (2) all Events of Default with respect to Securities of those series, other than the non-payment of the principal of Securities of such series which have become due solely by such declaration of acceleration, have been cured or waived as provided in Section 513. No such rescission shall affect any subsequent default or impair any right consequent thereon. If an Event of Default described in clause 5 or 6 of Section 501 occurs, the Outstanding Securities shall ipso facto become immediately due and payable without need of any declaration or other act on the part of the Trustee or any Holder. Section 503. Collection of Indebtedness and Suits for Enforcement by Trustee. The Company covenants that if (1) default is made in the payment of any interest on any Security when such interest becomes due and payable and such default continues for a period of 30 days, or (2) default is made in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any, on) any Security at the Maturity thereof and such default continues for the period of grace, if any, provided for with respect to such payment, the Company will, upon demand of the Trustee, pay to it, for the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, the whole amount then due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest and, to the extent that payment of such interest shall be legally enforceable, interest on any overdue principal and premium and on any overdue interest, at the rate or rates prescribed therefor in such Securities, and, in addition thereto, such further amount as shall be sufficient to cover the costs and expenses of collection, including the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel. If the Company fails to pay such amounts forthwith upon such demand, the Trustee, in its own name and as trustee of an express trust, may institute a judicial proceeding for the collection of the sums so due and unpaid, and may prosecute such proceeding to judgment or final decree, and may enforce the same against the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities and collect the moneys adjudged or decreed to be payable in the manner provided by law out of the property of the Company or any other obligor upon such Securities, wherever situated. If an Event of Default with respect to Securities of any series occurs and is continuing, the Trustee may in its discretion proceed to protect and enforce its rights and the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series by such appropriate judicial proceedings as the Trustee shall deem most effectual to protect and enforce any such rights, whether for the specific enforcement of any covenant or agreement in this Indenture or in aid of the exercise of any power granted herein, or to enforce any other proper remedy. 25
Section 504. Trustee May File Proofs of Claim. In case of any judicial proceeding relative to the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), its property or its creditors, the Trustee shall be entitled and empowered, by intervention in such proceeding or otherwise, to take any and all actions authorized under the Trust Indenture Act in order to have claims of the Holders and the Trustee allowed in any such proceeding. In particular, the Trustee shall be authorized to collect and receive any moneys or other property payable or deliverable on any such claims and to distribute the same; and any custodian, receiver, assignee, trustee, liquidator, sequestrator or other similar official in any such judicial proceeding is hereby authorized by each Holder to make such payments directly to the Trustee and, in the event that the Trustee shall consent to the making of such payments directly to the Holders, to pay to the Trustee any amount due it for the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, and any other amounts due the Trustee under Section 607. No provision of this Indenture shall be deemed to authorize the Trustee to authorize or consent to or accept or adopt on behalf of any Holder any plan of reorganization, arrangement, adjustment or composition affecting the Securities or the rights of any Holder thereof or to authorize the Trustee to vote in respect of the claim of any Holder in any such proceeding; provided, however, that the Trustee may, on behalf of the Holders, vote for the election of a trustee in bankruptcy or similar official and may be a member of a creditors' or other similar committee. Section 505. Trustee May Enforce Claims Without Possession of Securities. All rights of action and claims under this Indenture or the Securities may be prosecuted and enforced by the Trustee without the possession of any of the Securities or the production thereof in any proceeding relating thereto, and any such proceeding instituted by the Trustee shall be brought in its own name as trustee of an express trust, and any recovery of judgment shall, after provision for the payment of the reasonable compensation, expenses, disbursements and advances of the Trustee, its agents and counsel, be for the ratable benefit of the Holders of the Securities in respect of which such judgment has been recovered. Section 506. Application of Money Collected. Any money collected by the Trustee pursuant to this Article shall be applied in the following order, at the date or dates fixed by the Trustee and, in case of the distribution of such money on account of principal or any premium or interest, upon presentation of the Securities and the notation thereon of the payment if only partially paid and upon surrender thereof if fully paid: FIRST: To the payment of all amounts due the Trustee under Section 607; SECOND: To the payment of the amounts then due and unpaid for principal of and any premium and interest on the Securities in respect of which or for the benefit of which such money has been collected, ratably, without preference or priority of any kind, according to the amounts due and payable on such Securities for principal and any premium and interest, respectively; and THIRD: The balance, if any, to the Company. Section 507. Limitation on Suits. No Holder of any Security of any series shall have any right to institute any proceeding, judicial or otherwise, with respect to this Indenture, or for the appointment of a receiver or trustee, or for any other remedy hereunder, unless (1) such Holder has previously given written notice to the Trustee of a continuing Event of Default with respect to the Securities of that series; 26
(2) the Holders of not less than 25% in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series shall have made written request to the Trustee to institute proceedings in respect of such Event of Default in its own name as Trustee hereunder; (3) such Holder or Holders have offered to the Trustee indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities to be incurred in compliance with such request; (4) the Trustee for 60 days after its receipt of such notice, request and offer of indemnity has failed to institute any such proceeding; and (5) no direction inconsistent with such written request has been given to the Trustee before or during such 60-day period by the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of that series; it being understood and intended that no one or more of such Holders shall have any right in any manner whatever by virtue of, or by availing of, any provision of this Indenture to affect, disturb or prejudice the rights of any other Holders, or to obtain or to seek to obtain priority or preference over any other Holders or to enforce any right under this Indenture, except in the manner herein provided and for the equal and ratable benefit of all Holders. Section 508. Unconditional Right of Holders to Receive Principal, Premium and Interest. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Indenture, the Holder of any Security shall have the right, which is absolute and unconditional, to receive payment of the principal of and any premium and (subject to Section 308) any interest on such Security on the Stated Maturity or Maturities expressed in such Security (or, in the case of redemption, on the Redemption Date) and to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment, and such rights shall not be impaired without the consent of such Holder. Section 509. Restoration of Rights and Remedies. If the Trustee or any Holder has instituted any proceeding to enforce any right or remedy under this Indenture and such proceeding has been discontinued or abandoned for any reason, or has been determined adversely to the Trustee or to such Holder, then and in every such case, subject to any determination in such proceeding, the Company, the Trustee and the Holders shall be restored severally and respectively to their former positions hereunder and thereafter all rights and remedies of the Trustee and the Holders shall continue as though no such proceeding had been instituted. Section 510. Rights and Remedies Cumulative. Except as otherwise provided with respect to the replacement or payment of mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen Securities in the last paragraph of Section 307 and as otherwise provided in Section 507, no right or remedy herein conferred upon or reserved to the Trustee or to the Holders is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every right and remedy shall, to the extent permitted by law, be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise. The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other appropriate right or remedy. Section 511. Delay or Omission Not Waiver. No delay or omission of the Trustee or of any Holder of any Securities to exercise any right or remedy accruing upon any Event of Default shall impair any such right or remedy or constitute a waiver of any such Event of Default or an acquiescence therein. Every right and remedy given by this Article or by law to the Trustee or to the Holders may be exercised from time to time, and as often as may be deemed expedient, by the Trustee or by the Holders, as the case may be. 27
Section 512. Control by Holders. The Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series affected thereby, voting as a class, shall have the right to direct the time, method and place of conducting any proceeding for any remedy available to the Trustee, or exercising any trust or power conferred on the Trustee, with respect to the Securities of such series, provided that (1) such direction shall not be in conflict with any rule of law or with this Indenture, (2) the Trustee may take any other action deemed proper by the Trustee which is not inconsistent with such direction, and (3) subject to the provisions of Section 601, the Trustee shall have the right to decline to follow any such direction if the Trustee in good faith shall, by a Responsible Officer or Officers of the Trustee, determine that the proceeding so directed would involve the Trustee in personal liability. Section 513. Waiver of Past Defaults. The Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series affected thereby, voting as a class, may on behalf of the Holders of all the Securities of all such series waive any past default hereunder with respect to such series and its consequences, except a default (1) in the payment of the principal of or any premium or interest on any Security of such series, or (2) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which under Article Nine cannot be modified or amended without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security of such series affected. Upon any such waiver, such default shall cease to exist, and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured, for every purpose of this Indenture; but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other default or impair any right consequent thereon. Section 514. Undertaking for Costs. In any suit for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Indenture, or in any suit against the Trustee for any action taken, suffered or omitted by it as Trustee, a court may require any party litigant in such suit to file an undertaking to pay the costs of such suit, and may assess costs, including counsel fees and expenses, against any such party litigant, in the manner and to the extent provided in the Trust Indenture Act; provided, that neither this Section nor the Trust Indenture Act shall be deemed to authorize any court to require such an undertaking or to make such an assessment in any suit instituted by the Company, the Trustee or the Holders of 10% in aggregate principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series. Section 515. Waiver of Stay or Extension Laws. The Company covenants (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) that it will not at any time insist upon, or plead, or in any manner whatsoever claim or take the benefit or advantage of, any stay or extension law wherever enacted, now or at any time hereafter in force, which may affect the covenants or the performance of this Indenture; and the Company (to the extent that it may lawfully do so) hereby expressly waives all benefit or advantage of any such law, and covenants that it will not hinder, delay or impede the execution of any power herein granted to the Trustee, but will suffer and permit the execution of every such power as though no such law had been enacted. ARTICLE SIX THE TRUSTEE Section 601. Certain Duties and Responsibilities. The duties and responsibilities of the Trustee shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no provision of this Indenture shall require the Trustee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise 28
incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder, or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers, if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. Whether or not therein expressly so provided, every provision of this Indenture relating to the conduct or affecting the liability of or affording protection to the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of this Section. Section 602. Notice of Defaults. If a default occurs hereunder with respect to Securities of any series, the Trustee shall, within 90 days, give the Holders of Securities of such series notice of such default as and to the extent provided by the Trust Indenture Act; provided, however, that, except in the case of a default in the payment of the principal of (or premium, if any) or interest on any Security or in the payment of any sinking fund installment, the Trustee shall be protected in withholding such notice if and so long as the board of directors, the executive committee or a trust committee of directors and/or Responsible Officers of the Trustee in good faith determine that the withholding of such notice is in the interest of the Holders; and provided, further, that in the case of any default of the character specified in Section 501(4) no such notice to Holders shall be given until at least 30 days after the occurrence thereof. Section 603. Certain Rights of Trustee. Subject to the provisions of Section 601: (a) the Trustee may conclusively rely and shall be protected in acting or refraining from acting upon any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document (whether in its original or facsimile form) believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or presented by the proper party or parties; (b) any request or direction of the Company mentioned herein shall be sufficiently evidenced by a Company Request or Company Order and any resolution of the Board of Directors may be sufficiently evidenced by a Board Resolution; (c) whenever in the administration of this Indenture the Trustee shall deem it desirable that a matter be proved or established prior to taking, suffering or omitting any action hereunder, the Trustee (unless other evidence be herein specifically prescribed) may, in the absence of bad faith on its part, rely upon an Officers' Certificate; (d) the Trustee may consult with counsel of its selection and the advice of such counsel or any Opinion of Counsel shall be full and complete authorization and protection in respect of any action taken, suffered or omitted by it hereunder in good faith and in reliance thereon; (e) the Trustee shall be under no obligation to exercise any of the rights or powers vested in it by this Indenture at the request or direction of any of the Holders pursuant to this Indenture, unless such Holders shall have offered to the Trustee security or indemnity satisfactory to it against the costs, expenses and liabilities which might be incurred by it in compliance with such request or direction; (f) the Trustee shall not be bound to make any investigation into the facts or matters stated in any resolution, certificate, statement, instrument, opinion, report, notice, request, direction, consent, order, bond, debenture, note, other evidence of indebtedness or other paper or document, but the Trustee, in its discretion, may make such further inquiry or investigation into such facts or matters as it may see fit, and, if the Trustee shall determine to make such further inquiry or investigation, it shall be entitled to examine the books, records and premises of the Company, personally or by agent or attorney; 29
(g) the Trustee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereunder or perform any duties hereunder either directly or by or through agents or attorneys and the Trustee shall not be responsible for any misconduct or negligence on the part of any agent or attorney appointed with due care by it hereunder; (h) the Trustee shall not be liable for any action taken, suffered, or omitted to be taken by it in good faith and reasonably believed by it to be authorized or within the discretion or rights or powers conferred upon it by this Indenture; (i) the Trustee shall not be deemed to have notice of any default or Event of Default unless a Responsible Officer of the Trustee has actual knowledge thereof or unless written notice of any event which is in fact such a default is received by the Trustee at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and such notice references the Securities and this Indenture; (j) the rights privileges, protections, immunities and benefits given to the Trustee, including, without limitation, its right to be indemnified, are extended to, and shall be enforceable by, the Trustee in each of its capacities hereunder, and each agent, custodian and other Person employed to act hereunder; and (k) the Trustee may request that the Company deliver an Officers' Certificate setting forth the names of individuals and/or titles of officers authorized at such time to take specified actions pursuant to this Indenture, which Officers' Certificate may be signed by any person authorized to sign an Officers' Certificate, including any person specified as so authorized in any such certificate previously delivered and not superseded. Section 604. Not Responsible for Recitals or Issuance of Securities. The recitals contained herein and in the Securities, except the Trustee's certificates of authentication, shall be taken as the statements of the Company, and neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent assumes any responsibility for their correctness. The Trustee makes no representations as to the validity or sufficiency of this Indenture or of the Securities. Neither the Trustee nor any Authenticating Agent shall be accountable for the use or application by the Company of Securities or the proceeds thereof. Section 605. May Hold Securities and Serve as Trustee Under Other Indentures. The Trustee, any Authenticating Agent, any Paying Agent, any Security Registrar or any other agent of the Company, in its individual or any other capacity, may become the owner or pledgee of Securities and, subject to Sections 608 and 613, may otherwise deal with the Company with the same rights it would have if it were not Trustee, Authenticating Agent, Paying Agent, Security Registrar or such other agent. Subject to the provisions of Section 608, the Trustee may become and act as trustee under other indentures under which other securities, or certificates of interest or participation in other securities, of the Company are outstanding in the same manner as if it were not Trustee. Section 606. Money Held in Trust. Money held by the Trustee in trust hereunder need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Trustee shall be under no liability for interest on any money received by it hereunder except as otherwise agreed in writing with the Company. Section 607. Compensation and Reimbursement. The Company agrees: (1) to pay to the Trustee from time to time such compensation as shall be agreed in writing between the Company and the Trustee for all services 30
rendered by it hereunder (which compensation shall not be limited by any provision of law in regard to the compensation of a trustee of an express trust); (2) except as otherwise expressly provided herein, to reimburse the Trustee upon its request for all reasonable expenses, disbursements and advances incurred or made by the Trustee in accordance with any provision of this Indenture (including the reasonable compensation and the expenses and disbursements of its agents and counsel), except any such expense, disbursement or advance as may be attributable to its negligence, willful misconduct or bad faith; and (3) to indemnify each of the Trustee, or any predecessor Trustee, for, and to hold it harmless against, any and all loss, liability, damage, claim or expense incurred without negligence or willful misconduct on its part, arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the trust or trusts hereunder, including the costs and expenses of defending itself against any claim or liability in connection with the exercise or performance of any of its powers or duties hereunder. The Trustee shall have a lien prior to the Securities upon all property and funds held by it hereunder for any amount owing it or any predecessor Trustee pursuant to this Section 607, except with respect to funds held in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities. Without limiting any rights available to the Trustee under applicable law, when the Trustee incurs expenses or renders services in connection with an Event of Default specified in Section 501(5) or Section 501(6), the expenses (including the reasonable charges and expenses of its counsel) and the compensation for the services are intended to constitute expenses of administration under any applicable federal or state bankruptcy, insolvency or other similar law. The provisions of this Section shall survive the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture and the resignation or removal of the Trustee. Section 608. Disqualification; Conflicting Interests. The Trustee shall comply with the terms of Section 310 (b) of the TIA. Section 609. Corporate Trustee Required; Eligibility. There shall at all times be a Trustee hereunder which shall be a Person that is eligible pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act to act as such and has a combined capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000. If such Person publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of any federal or state supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Person shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time the Trustee shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, it shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect hereinafter specified in this Article. Section 610. Resignation and Removal; Appointment of Successor. (a) No resignation or removal of the Trustee and no appointment of a successor Trustee pursuant to this Article shall become effective until the acceptance of appointment by the successor Trustee in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611. (b) The Trustee may resign at any time with respect to the Securities of one or more series by giving written notice thereof to the Company. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of resignation, the resigning Trustee may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. (c) The Trustee may be removed at any time with respect to the Securities of any Series (i) by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such Series, delivered to the Trustee and to the Company or (ii) if there shall not have occurred and be continuing an Event of 31
Default, by written notice from the Company to the Trustee. If the instrument of acceptance by a successor Trustee required by Section 611 shall not have been delivered to the Trustee within 30 days after the giving of such notice of removal, the Trustee being removed may petition, at the expense of the Company, any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. (d) If at any time: (1) the Trustee shall fail to comply with Section 608 after written request therefor by the Company or by any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months, or (2) the Trustee shall cease to be eligible under Section 609 and shall fail to resign after written request therefor by the Company or by any such Holder, or (3) the Trustee shall become incapable of acting or shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent or a receiver of the Trustee or of its property shall be appointed or any public officer shall take charge or control of the Trustee or of its property or affairs for the purpose of rehabilitation, conservation or liquidation, then, in any such case, (i) the Company by or pursuant to a Board Resolution may remove the Trustee and appoint a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, or (ii) subject to Section 514, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Trustee with respect to all Securities and the appointment of a successor Trustee or Trustees. (e) If the Trustee shall resign, be removed or become incapable of acting, or if a vacancy shall occur in the office of Trustee for any cause, with respect to the Securities of one or more series, the Company, by or pursuant to a Board Resolution, shall promptly appoint a successor Trustee or Trustees with respect to the Securities of that or those series (it being understood that any such successor Trustee may be appointed with respect to the Securities of one or more or all of such series and that at any time there shall be only one Trustee with respect to the Securities of any particular series) and shall comply with the applicable requirements of Section 611. If, within one year after such resignation, removal or incapability, or the occurrence of such vacancy, a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall be appointed by Act of the Holders of a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series delivered to the Company and the retiring Trustee, the successor Trustee so appointed shall, forthwith upon its acceptance of such appointment in accordance with the applicable requirements of Section 611, become the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and to that extent supersede the successor Trustee appointed by the Company. If no successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series shall have been so appointed by the Company or the Holders and accepted appointment in the manner required by Section 611, any Holder who has been a bona fide Holder of a Security of such series for at least six months may, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated, petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series. (f) The Company shall give notice of each resignation and each removal of the Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series and each appointment of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of any series to all Holders of Securities of such series in the manner provided in Section 106. Each notice shall include the name of the successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of such series and the address of its Corporate Trust Office. Section 611. Acceptance of Appointment by Successor. (a) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to all Securities, every such successor Trustee so appointed shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the Company and to the retiring Trustee an 32
instrument accepting such appointment, and thereupon the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective and such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee; but, on the request of the Company or the successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall, upon payment of its charges, execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Trustee all the rights, powers and trusts of the retiring Trustee and shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder. (b) In case of the appointment hereunder of a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more (but not all) series, the Company, the retiring Trustee and each successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto wherein each successor Trustee shall accept such appointment and which (1) shall contain such provisions as shall be necessary or desirable to transfer and confirm to, and to vest in, each successor Trustee all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates, (2) if the retiring Trustee is not retiring with respect to all Securities, shall contain such provisions as shall be deemed necessary or desirable to confirm that all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series as to which the retiring Trustee is not retiring shall continue to be vested in the retiring Trustee, and (3) shall add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, it being understood that nothing herein or in such supplemental indenture shall constitute such Trustees co-trustees of the same trust and that each such Trustee shall be trustee of a trust or trusts hereunder separate and apart from any trust or trusts hereunder administered by any other such Trustee; and upon the execution and delivery of such supplemental indenture the resignation or removal of the retiring Trustee shall become effective to the extent provided therein and each such successor Trustee, without any further act, deed or conveyance, shall become vested with all the rights, powers, trusts and duties of the retiring Trustee with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; but, on request of the Company or any successor Trustee, such retiring Trustee shall duly assign, transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee all property and money held by such retiring Trustee hereunder with respect to the Securities of that or those series to which the appointment of such successor Trustee relates; provided, however, that to the extent that such property and money is not held by the Trustee in trust for the benefit of the Holders of particular Securities, such retiring Trustee shall transfer and deliver to such successor Trustee such property and money upon payment of its charges hereunder. (c) Upon request of any such successor Trustee, the Company shall execute any and all instruments for more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to such successor Trustee all such rights, powers and trusts referred to in paragraph (a) and (b) of this Section, as the case may be. (d) No successor Trustee shall accept its appointment unless at the time of such acceptance such successor Trustee shall be qualified and eligible under this Article. Section 612. Merger, Conversion, Consolidation or Succession to Business. Any corporation into which the Trustee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Trustee shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate trust business of the Trustee, shall be the successor of the Trustee hereunder, provided such corporation shall be otherwise qualified and eligible under this Article, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of any of the parties hereto. In case any Securities shall have been authenticated, but not delivered, by the Trustee then in office, any successor by merger, conversion or consolidation to such authenticating Trustee may adopt such authentication and deliver the Securities so authenticated with the same effect as if such successor Trustee had itself authenticated such Securities. 33
Section 613. Preferential Collection of Claims Against Company. If and when the Trustee shall be or become a creditor of the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities), the Trustee shall be subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act regarding the collection of claims against the Company (or any such other obligor). Section 614. Investment of Certain Payments Held by the Trustee. Any amounts held by the Trustee hereunder, other than pursuant to Article Thirteen hereof, shall be invested by the Trustee from time to time at the direction of the Company in such investments as may be specified by the Company in writing and reasonably agreed to by the Trustee from time to time; provided, that in investing trust funds pursuant to the terms of this Section and liquidating any investments held in trust hereunder, the Trustee may, to the extent permitted by law, purchase securities (including for the purposes of this paragraph securities as to which the Trustee or a Trustee Affiliate (as defined below) is the issuer or guarantor) from, and sell securities to, itself or any Trustee Affiliate and purchase securities underwritten by, or in which a market is made by, the Trustee or a Trustee Affiliate. For the purposes hereof, a "Trustee Affiliate" shall mean an entity that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the Trustee. Any income or gain realized as a result of any such investment shall be promptly distributed (in no event later than the next Business Day) to the Company after any intended amounts have been paid to the Holders entitled thereto, except after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default. The Trustee shall have no liability to the Company for any loss, fee, tax or other charge resulting from any investment, reinvestment or liquidation of an investment made in accordance with this Section, and shall bear no expense in connection with any investment pursuant to this Section. Any such investment may be sold (without regard to maturity date) by the Trustee whenever necessary to make any distribution required by this Indenture. Nothing herein shall require the Trustee to invest funds held by it pursuant to the last paragraph of Section 1003. Section 615. Appointment of Authenticating Agent. The Trustee may appoint an Authenticating Agent or Agents with respect to one or more series of Securities which shall be authorized to act on behalf of the Trustee to authenticate Securities of such series issued upon original issue and upon exchange, registration of transfer or partial redemption thereof or pursuant to Section 307, and Securities so authenticated shall be entitled to the benefits of this Indenture and shall be valid and obligatory for all purposes as if authenticated by the Trustee hereunder. Wherever reference is made in this Indenture to the authentication and delivery of Securities by the Trustee or the Trustee's certificate of authentication, such reference shall be deemed to include authentication and delivery on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent and a certificate of authentication executed on behalf of the Trustee by an Authenticating Agent. Each Authenticating Agent shall be acceptable to the Company and shall at all times be a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia, authorized under such laws to act as Authenticating Agent, having a combined capital and surplus of not less than $50,000,000 and subject to supervision or examination by federal or state authority. If such Authenticating Agent publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of said supervising or examining authority, then for the purposes of this Section, the combined capital and surplus of such Authenticating Agent shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published. If at any time an Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, such Authenticating Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in this Section. Any corporation into which an Authenticating Agent may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which such Authenticating Agent shall be a party, or any corporation succeeding to all or substantially all the corporate agency or corporate trust business of an Authenticating Agent, shall 34
continue to be an Authenticating Agent, provided such corporation shall be otherwise eligible under this Section, without the execution or filing of any paper or any further act on the part of the Trustee or the Authenticating Agent. An Authenticating Agent may resign at any time by giving written notice thereof to the Trustee and to the Company. The Trustee may at any time terminate the agency of an Authenticating Agent by giving written notice thereof to such Authenticating Agent and to the Company. Upon receiving such a notice of resignation or upon such a termination, or in case at any time such Authenticating Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Trustee may appoint a successor Authenticating Agent which shall be acceptable to the Company and shall mail written notice of such appointment by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to all Holders of Securities of the series with respect to which such Authenticating Agent will serve, as their names and addresses appear in the Security Register. Any successor Authenticating Agent upon acceptance of its appointment hereunder shall become vested with all the rights, powers and duties of its predecessor hereunder, with like effect as if originally named as an Authenticating Agent. No successor Authenticating Agent shall be appointed unless eligible under the provisions of this section. The Company agrees to pay to each Authenticating Agent from time to time reasonable compensation for its services under this Section. If an appointment with respect to one or more series is made pursuant to this Section, the Securities of such series may have endorsed thereon, in addition to or in lieu of the Trustee's certificate of authentication, an alternative certificate of authentication in the following form: This is one of the Securities of the series designated therein referred to in the within-mentioned Indenture. Dated: --------------------------------- THE BANK OF NEW YORK, AS TRUSTEE By: ----------------------------------- As Authenticating Agent By: ----------------------------------- Authorized Signatory ARTICLE SEVEN HOLDERS' LISTS AND REPORTS BY TRUSTEE AND COMPANY Section 701. Company to Furnish Trustee Names and Addresses of Holders. The Company will furnish or cause to be furnished to the Trustee (a) semi-annually, 15 days after the Regular Record Date for interest for each series of Securities, a list, in such form as the Trustee may reasonably require, of the names and addresses of the Holders of Securities of such series as of such Regular Record Date, or if there is no Regular Record Date for interest for such series of Securities, semi-annually, upon such dates as are set forth in the Board Resolution or indenture supplemental hereto authorizing such series, as the case may be, and (b) at such other times as the Trustee may request in writing, within 30 days after the receipt by the Company of any such request, a list in similar form and content as of a date not more than 15 days prior to the time such list is furnished; excluding from any such list names and addresses received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. Section 702. Preservation of Information; Communications to Holders. (a) The Trustee shall preserve, in as current a form as is reasonably practicable, the names and addresses of Holders contained in the most recent list furnished to the Trustee as provided in Section 701 and the names and 35
addresses of Holders received by the Trustee in its capacity as Security Registrar. The Trustee may destroy any list furnished to it as provided in Section 701 upon receipt of a new list so furnished. (b) The rights of the Holders to communicate with other Holders with respect to their rights under this Indenture or under the Securities, and the corresponding rights and privileges of the Trustee, shall be as provided by the Trust Indenture Act. (c) Every Holder of Securities, by receiving and holding the same, agrees with the Company and the Trustee that neither the Company nor the Trustee nor any agent of either of them shall be held accountable by reason of any disclosure of information as to names and addresses of Holders made pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act. Section 703. Reports by Trustee. (a) The Trustee shall transmit to Holders such reports concerning the Trustee and its actions under this Indenture as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant thereto. If required by Section 313(a) of the Trust Indenture Act, the Trustee shall, within sixty days after each May 15 following the date of the first issuance of Securities hereunder deliver to Holders a brief report, dated as of such May 15, which complies with the provisions of such Section 313(a). (b) A copy of each such report shall, at the time of such transmission to Holders, be filed by the Trustee with each stock exchange upon which any Securities are listed, with the Commission and with the Company. The Company promptly will notify the Trustee when any Securities are listed on any stock exchange or delisted therefrom. Section 704. Reports by Company. The Company shall file with the Trustee and the Commission, and transmit to Holders, such information, documents and other reports, and such summaries thereof, as may be required pursuant to the Trust Indenture Act at the times and in the manner provided pursuant to such Act; provided, that any such information, documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 shall be filed with the Trustee within 15 days after the same is so required to be filed with the Commission. Delivery of such reports, information and documents to the Trustee is for informational purposes only and the Trustee's receipt of such shall not constitute constructive notice of any information contained therein or determinable from information contained therein, including the Company's compliance with any of its covenants hereunder (as to which the Trustee is entitled to rely exclusively on Officers' Certificates). ARTICLE EIGHT CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, CONVEYANCE, TRANSFER OR LEASE Section 801. Company May Consolidate, Etc., Only on Certain Terms. The Company shall not consolidate with or merge into any other corporation or convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to any Person, unless: (1) the Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or the Person which acquires by conveyance, transfer or lease the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety shall be a corporation, partnership or trust organized and validly existing under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia and shall expressly assume, by an indenture supplemental hereto, executed and delivered to the Trustee, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, the due and punctual payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on all the Securities and the performance of every covenant of this Indenture on the part of the Company to be performed or observed; 36
(2) immediately after giving effect to such transaction, no Event of Default, and no event which, after notice or lapse of time or both, would become an Event of Default, shall have occurred and be continuing; and (3) the Company has delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease and such supplemental indenture comply with this Article and that all conditions precedent herein provided for relating to such transaction have been complied with. This Section shall not apply to any merger or consolidation in which the Company is the surviving corporation. Section 802. Successor Substituted. Upon any consolidation of the Company with, or merger of the Company into, any other Person or any conveyance, transfer or lease of the properties and assets of the Company substantially as an entirety in accordance with Section 801, the successor Person formed by such consolidation or into which the Company is merged or to which such conveyance, transfer or lease is made shall succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, the Company under this Indenture with the same effect as if such successor Person had been named as the Company herein, and thereafter, except in the case of a lease, the predecessor Person shall be relieved of all obligations and covenants under this Indenture and the Securities. Section 803. Officers' Certificate and Opinion of Counsel. The Trustee, subject to the provisions of Sections 601 and 603, shall receive an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel as conclusive evidence that any such consolidation, merger, conveyance, transfer or lease, and any such assumption, complies with the provisions of this Article before the Trustee shall execute any supplemental indenture required pursuant to this Article. ARTICLE NINE SUPPLEMENTAL INDENTURES Section 901. Supplemental Indentures Without Consent of Holders. Without the consent of any Holders, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee, at any time and from time to time, may enter into one or more indentures supplemental hereto, in form satisfactory to the Trustee, for any of the following purposes: (1) to evidence the succession of another Person to the Company and the assumption by any such successor of the covenants of the Company herein and in the Securities; or (2) to add to the covenants of the Company for the benefit of the Holders of all or any series of Securities (and if such covenants are to be for the benefit of less than all series of Securities, stating that such covenants are expressly being included solely for the benefit of such series) or to surrender any right or power herein conferred upon the Company; or (3) to add any additional Events of Default with respect to all or any series of Securities; or (4) to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture to such extent as shall be necessary to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in bearer form, registrable or not registrable as to principal, and with or without interest coupons, or to permit or facilitate the issuance of Securities in uncertificated form or in the form of Book-Entry Securities; or (5) to add to, change or eliminate any of the provisions of this Indenture in respect of one or more series of Securities, provided that any such addition, change or elimination (i) shall neither (A) apply to any Security of any series created prior to the execution of such supplemental indenture and entitled to the benefit of such provision nor (B) modify the 37
rights of the Holder of any such Security with respect to such provision or (ii) shall become effective only when there is no such Security Outstanding; or (6) to secure the Securities; or (7) to establish the form or terms of Securities of any series as permitted by Sections 201 and 301; or (8) to evidence and provide for the acceptance of appointment hereunder by a successor Trustee with respect to the Securities of one or more series and to add to or change any of the provisions of this Indenture as shall be necessary to provide for or facilitate the administration of the trusts hereunder by more than one Trustee, pursuant to the requirements of Section 611(b); or (9) if allowed, without penalty under applicable laws and regulations, to permit payment in the United States (including any of the States thereof and the District of Columbia), its territories, its possessions and other areas subject to its jurisdiction of principal, premium, if any, or interest, if any, on Securities in bearer form or coupons, if any; or (10) to cure any ambiguity or to correct or supplement any provision herein which may be defective or inconsistent with any other provision herein; and (11) to make any other change with respect to matters or questions arising under this Indenture which, in the opinion of counsel to the Company, does not materially adversely affect the interests of the Holders of the Series of Securities affected thereby. Section 902. Supplemental Indentures with Consent of Holders. With the consent of the Holders of not less than a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of each series adversely affected by such supplemental indenture, by Act of said Holders delivered to the Company and the Trustee, the Company, when authorized by a Board Resolution, and the Trustee may enter into an indenture or indentures supplemental hereto for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of this Indenture or of modifying in any manner the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series under this Indenture; provided, however, that no such supplemental indenture shall, without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby, (1) change the Stated Maturity of the principal of, or any installment of principal of or interest on, any Security, or reduce the principal amount thereof or the rate of interest thereon or any premium payable upon the redemption thereof, or reduce the amount of the principal of an Original Issue Discount Security that would be due and payable upon a declaration of acceleration of the Maturity thereof pursuant to Section 502, or change any Place of Payment where, or the coin or currency in which, any Security or any premium or interest thereon is payable, or impair the right to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the Stated Maturity thereof (or, in the case of redemption, on or after the Redemption Date), or adversely affect the right of the Holder of any Security to require the Company to repurchase such Securities, or (2) reduce the percentage in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of any series, the consent of whose Holders is required for any such supplemental indenture, or the consent of whose Holders is required for any waiver (of compliance with certain provisions of this Indenture or certain defaults hereunder and their consequences) provided for in this Indenture, or (3) modify any of the provisions of this Section, Section 513 or Section 1007, except to increase any percentage set forth in such Sections or to provide that certain other provisions of this Indenture cannot be modified or waived without the consent of the Holder of each Outstanding Security affected thereby; provided, however, that this clause shall not be deemed to require the consent of any Holder with respect to changes in the 38
references to "the Trustee" and concomitant changes in this Section and Section 1007, or the deletion of this proviso, in accordance with the requirements of Sections 611(b) and 901(8). A supplemental indenture which changes or eliminates any covenant or other provision of this Indenture which has expressly been included solely for the benefit of one or more particular series of Securities, or which modifies the rights of the Holders of Securities of such series with respect to such covenant or other provision, shall be deemed not to affect the rights under this Indenture of the Holders of Securities of any other series. It shall not be necessary for any Act of Holders under this Section to approve the particular form of any proposed supplemental indenture, but it shall be sufficient if such Act shall approve the substance thereof. Section 903. Execution of Supplemental Indentures. In executing, or accepting the additional trusts created by, any supplemental indenture permitted by this Article or the modifications thereby of the trusts created by this Indenture, the Trustee shall receive, and (subject to Section 601) shall be fully protected in relying upon, an Opinion of Counsel and an Officers' Certificate, each stating that the execution of such supplemental indenture is authorized or permitted by this Indenture. The Trustee may, but shall not be obligated to, enter into any such supplemental indenture which affects the Trustee's own rights, duties or immunities under this Indenture or otherwise. Section 904. Effect of Supplemental Indentures. Upon the execution of any supplemental indenture under this Article, this Indenture shall be modified in accordance therewith and such supplemental indenture shall form a part of this Indenture for all purposes; and every Holder of Securities theretofore or thereafter authenticated and delivered hereunder shall be bound thereby. Section 905. Conformity with Trust Indenture Act. Unless the Company shall determine, based on an Opinion of Counsel delivered to the Trustee, that the same shall not be required, every supplemental indenture executed pursuant to this Article shall conform to the requirements of TIA as then in effect. Section 906. Reference in Securities to Supplemental Indentures. Securities of any series authenticated and delivered after the execution of any supplemental indenture pursuant to this Article may, and shall if required by the Trustee, bear a notation in form approved by the Trustee as to any matter provided for in such supplemental indenture. If the Company shall so determine, new Securities of any series so modified as to conform, in the opinion of the Trustee and the Company, to any such supplemental indenture may be prepared and executed by the Company and authenticated and delivered by the Trustee in exchange for Outstanding Securities of such series. ARTICLE TEN COVENANTS Section 1001. Payment of Principal, Premium and Interest. The Company covenants and agrees for the benefit of each series of Securities that it will duly and punctually pay the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Securities of the series in accordance with the terms of the Securities and this Indenture. The principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on Securities shall be considered paid on the date due if the Paying Agents hold in accordance with this Indenture on that date money, sufficient to pay all principal (and premium, if any) and interest then due and the Paying Agents are not prohibited from paying such money to the Holders on such date pursuant to the terms of this Indenture. 39
Section 1002. Maintenance of Office or Agency. The Company will maintain in each Place of Payment for any series of Securities an office or agency where Securities of that series may be presented or surrendered for payment, where Securities of that series may be surrendered for registration of transfer or exchange and where notices and demands to or upon the Company in respect of the Securities of that series and this Indenture may be served. The Trustee is hereby initially appointed Paying Agent, and the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee is initially designated as the office or agency for the foregoing purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of the location, and any change in the location, of such office or agency. If at any time the Company shall fail to maintain any such required office or agency or shall fail to furnish the Trustee with the address thereof, such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands may be made or served at the Corporate Trust Office of the Trustee, and the Company hereby appoints the Trustee as its agent to receive all such presentations, surrenders, notices and demands. The Company may also from time to time designate one or more other offices or agencies where the Securities of one or more series may be presented or surrendered for any or all such purposes and may from time to time rescind such designations; provided, however, that no such designation or rescission shall in any manner relieve the Company of its obligation to maintain an office or agency in each Place of Payment for Securities of any series for such purposes. The Company will give prompt written notice to the Trustee of any such designation or rescission and of any change in the location of any such other office or agency. Section 1003. Money for Securities Payments to Be Held in Trust. If the Company shall at any time act as its own Paying Agent with respect to any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any of the Securities of that series, segregate and hold in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided and will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. Whenever the Company shall have one or more Paying Agents for any series of Securities, it will, on or before each due date of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Securities of that series, deposit with a Paying Agent a sum sufficient to pay the principal (and premium, if any) or interest so becoming due, such sum to be held in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled to such principal, premium or interest, and (unless such Paying Agent is the Trustee) the Company will promptly notify the Trustee of its action or failure so to act. The Company will cause each Paying Agent for any series of Securities other than the Trustee to execute and deliver to the Trustee an instrument in which such Paying Agent shall agree with the Trustee, subject to the provisions of this Section, that such Paying Agent will: (1) hold all sums held by it for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on Securities of that series in trust for the benefit of the Persons entitled thereto until such sums shall be paid to such Persons or otherwise disposed of as herein provided; (2) give the Trustee notice of any default by the Company (or any other obligor upon the Securities of that series) in the making of any payment of principal (and premium, if any) or interest on the Securities of that series; and (3) at any time during the continuance of any such default, upon the written request of the Trustee, forthwith pay to the Trustee all sums so held in trust by such Paying Agent. The Company may at any time, for the purpose of obtaining the satisfaction and discharge of this Indenture or for any other purpose, pay, or by Company Order direct any Paying Agent to pay, to the Trustee all sums held in trust by the Company or such Paying Agent, such sums to be held by the Trustee upon the 40
same trusts as those upon which such sums were held by the Company or such Paying Agent; and, upon such payment by any Paying Agent to the Trustee, such Paying Agent shall be released from all further liability with respect to such money. Any money deposited with the Trustee or any Paying Agent, or received by the Trustee in respect of obligations deposited with the Trustee pursuant to Article Thirteen, or then held by the Company, in trust for the payment of the principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any Security of any series and remaining unclaimed for two years after such principal (and premium, if any) or interest has become due and payable shall be paid to the Company on Company Request, or (if then held by the Company) shall be discharged from such trust; and the Holder of such Security shall thereafter, as an unsecured general creditor, look only to the Company for payment thereof (unless the Company has remitted required moneys or property to the appropriate governmental authority under any applicable escheat or abandoned or unclaimed property laws, or has otherwise been discharged under such laws or laws of similar applicability, in which case such Holder shall look solely to its remedies (if any) under such laws and not to the Company), and all liability of the Trustee or such Paying Agent with respect to such trust money, and all liability of the Company as trustee thereof shall thereupon cease. Section 1004. Corporate Existence. Subject to Article Eight, the Company will do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve and keep in full force and effect its corporate existence, rights (charter and statutory) and franchises; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to preserve any such right or franchise if the Company shall determine that the preservation thereof is no longer desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company. Section 1005. Limitation upon Liens. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 1005, the Company will not itself, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, create, incur, issue, assume, guarantee or secure any Debt secured by any Liens on any Restricted Operating Property, or on any Restricted Intercompany Securities, without effectively providing that the Securities (together with, if the Company shall so determine, any other Debt of the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created which is not subordinate to the Securities) shall be secured equally and ratably with (or prior to) such secured Debt for so long as such secured Debt shall be so secured. For the purpose of providing such equal and ratable security, the principal amount of any Securities shall mean the aggregate principal amount of such Securities which are Outstanding, and shall not be less than that principal amount which could be declared to be due and payable pursuant to Section 502 on the date of the making of such effective provision. The extent of such equal and ratable security shall be adjusted, to the extent permitted by law, as and when said principal amount changes over time pursuant to Section 502 and any other provision hereof. Nothing contained in this Section shall prevent, restrict or apply to, and there shall be excluded from secured Debt in any computation under this Section, Debt secured by: (1) Liens on any property or assets of the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary or on any shares of stock or Debt existing as of the date of this Indenture; (2) Liens on all property or assets of, or on any shares of stock or Debt of, any corporation existing at the time such corporation becomes a Restricted Subsidiary; (3) Liens on any property or assets or shares of stock or Debt existing at the time of acquisition thereof (including acquisition through merger or consolidation) or securing the payment of all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof or securing any Debt incurred prior to, at the time of or within 120 days after the acquisition of such property or assets or shares of stock or Debt or the completion of any such construction, whichever is later, for the purpose of financing all or any part of the purchase price or construction cost thereof (provided such Liens are limited to such shares of stock or Debt, property or assets, 41
improvements thereon and the land upon which such property, assets and improvements are located and any other property or assets not then constituting an Operating Property); (4) Liens on any property or assets to secure all or any, part of the cost of development, operation, construction, alteration, repair or improvement of all or any part of such property, or assets, or to secure Debt incurred prior to, at the time of or within 120 days after the completion of such development, operation, construction, alteration, repair or improvement, whichever is later, for the purpose of financing all or any part of such cost (provided such Liens are limited to such property or assets, improvements thereon and the land upon which such property, assets and improvements are located and any other property or assets not then constituting an Operating Property); (5) Liens which secure Debt owing to the Company or another Restricted Subsidiary by a Restricted Subsidiary; (6) (i) Liens arising from the assignment of moneys due and to become due under contracts between the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary and the United States of America, any State, Territory, or possession thereof or any agency, department, instrumentality or political subdivision of any, thereof, (ii) Liens in favor of the United States of America, any State, Commonwealth, Territory or possession thereof or any agency, department, instrumentality or political subdivision of any thereof, pursuant to the provisions of any contract not directly or indirectly in connection with securing Debt or (iii) Liens arising in connection with obligations issued by a State, Commonwealth, Territory or possession of the United States of America, or any political subdivision or governmental authority of any of the foregoing, or the District of Columbia; (7) any deposit or pledge as security for the performance of any bid, tender, contract, lease or undertaking not directly or indirectly in connection with the securing of Debt; any deposit or pledge with any governmental agency required or permitted to qualify the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary to conduct business, to maintain self-insurance or to obtain the benefits of any law pertaining to workmen's compensation, unemployment insurance, old age pensions, social security or similar matters, or to obtain any stay or discharge in any legal or administrative proceedings; deposits or pledges to obtain the release of mechanics', workmen's, repairmen's, materialmen's or warehousemen's liens or the release of property in the possession of a common carrier; any security interest created in connection with the sale, discount or guarantee of notes, chattel mortgages, leases, accounts receivable, trade acceptances or other paper, or contingent repurchase obligations, arising out of sales of merchandise in the ordinary course of business; or other deposits or pledges similar to those referred to in this clause (7); (8) Liens arising under law by reason of the nonpayment of taxes, assessments or governmental charges, or of claims for labor, materials or supplies, if (a) the amount, applicability or validity thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings or (b) such Liens are not of material importance to the business, operations, financial condition or results of operations of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (9) Liens arising by reason of any judgment, decree or order of any court or other governmental authority, so long as any appropriate legal proceedings which may have been initiated for the review of such judgment, decree or order shall not have been finally terminated or so long as the period within which such proceedings may be initiated shall not have expired; and (10) any extension, renewal, substitution or replacement (or successive extensions, renewals, substitutions or replacements), as a whole or in part, of any of the Liens referred to in clauses (1) through (9) above or the Debt secured thereby; provided that (i) such extension, renewal, substitution or replacement Lien shall be limited to all or any part of the same property or assets, shares of stock or Debt that secured 42
the Lien extended, renewed, substituted or replaced (plus improvements on such property and any other property or assets not then constituting an Operating Property) and (ii) in the case of clauses (1) through (3) above, the Debt secured by such Lien at such time is not increased. Debt created by the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall not be cumulated with a guarantee of the same Debt by the Company, or any other Restricted Subsidiary for the same financial obligation. (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, Liens which would otherwise be prohibited under Section 1005(a) above may be incurred if, after giving effect thereto, the aggregate principal amount of all such secured Debt then outstanding that is secured by Liens on Restricted Operating Properties or on Restricted Intercompany Securities (excluding any secured Debt permitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section 1005), plus Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of this Indenture (other than Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by Section 1006(b)), computed without duplication of amounts constituting Debt referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 1005, would not exceed an amount equal to 10% of Consolidated Net Assets. (c) If the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall at any time enter into a merger or consolidation with another corporation or purchase all or substantially all of the assets of another corporation, or if the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary shall convey, transfer or lease its properties and assets substantially as an entirety to another corporation and if such other corporation has outstanding Debt secured by a mortgage or other lien which, by reason of an after-acquired property clause or similar provision therein contained, would extend, after such merger, consolidation, sale or purchase, to any Operating Property owned by the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary immediately prior to such merger, consolidation, sale or purchase, or to any or Restricted Intercompany Securities, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary shall be deemed to have created a Lien within the prohibition of paragraph (a) of this Section 1005, unless (i) such merger or consolidation involving a Restricted Subsidiary shall constitute a disposition by the Company of its entire interest in the Restricted Subsidiary, or (ii) either (A) at or prior to the effective date of such merger, consolidation, sale or purchase, such mortgage or lien shall have been released of record or otherwise satisfied to the extent it would extend to such Restricted Operating Property or Restricted Intercompany Securities or (B) prior to such merger, consolidation, sale or purchase, the Company or such Restricted Subsidiary, as the case may be, shall have created, as security for the Securities (and, if the Company shall so determine, as security for any other indebtedness of the Company then existing or thereafter created ranking equally with the Securities and any other indebtedness of the Restricted Subsidiary then existing or thereafter created), a valid lien which, upon completion of said merger, consolidation, sale or purchase, will rank prior to the lien of such mortgage or other lien of such other corporation on such Restricted Operating Property or Restricted Intercompany Securities. Section 1006. Limitation upon Sales and Leasebacks. The Company will not itself, and will not permit any Restricted Subsidiary to, enter into any Sale and Leaseback Transaction after the date of this Indenture, unless either: (a) the Attributable Debt of the Company and its Restricted Subsidiaries in respect of such Sale and Leaseback Transaction and all other Sale and Leaseback Transactions entered into after the date of this Indenture (other than Sale and Leaseback Transactions permitted by Section 1006(b)), plus the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Debt at the time which is secured by Liens on Restricted Operating Properties or Restricted Intercompany Securities (excluding any such Debt secured by Liens permitted under Section 1005(a)), would not exceed 10% of Consolidated Net Assets, or (b) the Company applies, within 120 days after the sale or transfer, an amount equal to the fair market value of the Operating Property so sold and leased back at the time of entering into such Sale and Leaseback Transaction (as determined by any two of the following: the Chairman or Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, any Vice Chairman, any Vice 43
President, the Treasurer and the Controller of the Company) to (i) the purchase of any asset or any interest in an asset which would qualify, after purchase, as an Operating Property or (ii) the retirement of Funded Debt (including Securities of any series constituting Funded Debt) of the Company; provided, that the amount to be applied to the retirement of Funded Debt of the Company shall be reduced by (i) the principal amount of Securities delivered within 120 days after such sale or transfer to the Trustee for redemption and cancellation, and (ii) the principal amount of Funded Debt, other than Securities, voluntarily retired by the Company within 120 days after such sale. For purposes of clauses (i) and (ii) of the foregoing proviso, the principal amount of any Securities shall mean the aggregate principal amount of such Securities which are Outstanding and shall not be less than that principal amount which could be declared to be due and payable pursuant to Section 502 at the time of determination. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no retirement referred to in this subdivision (b) may be effected by payment at maturity or pursuant to any mandatory sinking fund payment or any mandatory prepayment provision. Notwithstanding the foregoing, where the Company or any Restricted Subsidiary is the lessee in any Sale and Leaseback Transaction, Attributable Debt shall not include any Debt resulting from the guarantee by the Company or any other Restricted Subsidiary of the lessee's obligation thereunder. Section 1007. Waiver of Certain Covenants. The Company may omit in any particular instance to comply with any covenant or condition set forth in Sections 1004 to 1006, inclusive, with respect to the Securities of any series if before or after the time for such compliance the Holders of at least a majority in principal amount of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall, by Act of such Holders, either waive such compliance in such instance or generally waive compliance with such covenant or condition, but no such waiver shall extend to or affect such covenant or condition except to the extent so expressly waived, and, until such waiver shall become effective, the obligations of the Company and the duties of the Trustee in respect of any such covenant or condition shall remain in full force and effect. The Company may, but shall not be obligated to, fix a record date for the purpose of determining the Persons entitled to waive compliance with any covenant or condition hereunder. If a record date is fixed, the Holders on such record date, or their duly designated proxies, and only such Persons, shall be entitled to waive any such compliance, whether or not such Holders remain Holders after such record date. Section 1008. Compliance Certificate. The Company will furnish to the Trustee on or before May 1 in each year (beginning the first May 1 after the date of original issuance of Securities hereunder) a brief certificate (which need not comply with Section 102) from the principal executive, financial or accounting officer of the Company stating that in the course of the performance by the signer of his or her duties as an officer of the Company he or she would normally have knowledge of any default or non-compliance by the Company in the performance of any covenants or conditions contained in this Indenture, stating whether or not he or she has knowledge of any such default or non-compliance and, if so, specifying each such default or non-compliance of which the signer has knowledge and the nature thereof. For purposes of this Section 1008, non-compliance or default shall be determined without regard to any grace period or requirement of notice provided pursuant to the terms of this Indenture. Section 1009. Calculation of Original Issue Discount. The Company shall file with the Trustee promptly at the end of each calendar year (i) a written notice specifying the amount of original issue discount (including daily rates and accrual periods) accrued on Outstanding Securities as of the end of each year and (ii) such other specific information relating to such original issue discount as may be then be relevant under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 44
ARTICLE ELEVEN REDEMPTION OF SECURITIES Section 1101. Applicability of Article. Securities of any series which are redeemable in whole or in part before their Stated Maturity shall be redeemable in accordance with their terms and (except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of any series) in accordance with this Article. Section 1102. Election to Redeem: Notice to Trustee. The election of the Company to redeem any Securities shall be evidenced by or pursuant to a Board Resolution or Officers' Certificate. In case of any redemption at the election of the Company of the Securities of any series, the Company shall, at least 60 days prior to the Redemption Date fixed by the Company (unless a shorter notice shall be satisfactory to the Trustee), notify the Trustee of such Redemption Date, of the principal amount of Securities of such series to be redeemed and, if applicable, of the tenor of the Securities to be redeemed. In the case of any redemption of Securities (a) prior to the expiration of any restriction on such redemption provided in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture or (b) pursuant to an election of the Company which is subject to a condition specified in the terms of such Securities or elsewhere in this Indenture, the Company shall furnish the Trustee with an Officers' Certificate evidencing compliance with such restriction or condition. Section 1103. Selection by Trustee of Securities to Be Redeemed. If less than all the Securities of any series are to be redeemed (unless all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed or unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series not previously called for redemption, by such method as the Trustee shall deem fair and appropriate and which may provide for the selection for redemption of a portion of the principal amount of any Security of such series, provided that the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of any Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. If less than all of the Securities of such series and of a specified tenor are to be redeemed (unless such redemption affects only a single Security), the particular Securities to be redeemed shall be selected not more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date by the Trustee, from the Outstanding Securities of such series and specified tenor not previously called for redemption in accordance with the preceding sentence. The Trustee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of the Securities selected for redemption and, in the case of any Securities selected for partial redemption, the principal amount thereof to be redeemed. The provisions of the two preceding paragraphs shall not apply with respect to any redemption affecting only a single Security, whether such Security is to be redeemed in whole or in part. In the case of any such redemption in part, the unredeemed portion of the principal amount of the Security shall be in an authorized denomination (which shall not be less than the minimum authorized denomination) for such Security. For all purposes of this Indenture, unless the context otherwise requires, all provisions relating to the redemption of Securities shall relate, in the case of any Securities redeemed or to be redeemed only in part, to the portion of the principal amount of such Securities which has been or is to be redeemed. Section 1104. Notice of Redemption. Notice of redemption shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the Redemption Date, to each Holder of Securities to be redeemed, at his address appearing in the Security Register. 45
All notices of redemption shall identify the Securities to be redeemed (including CUSIP numbers) and shall state: (1) the Redemption Date, (2) the Redemption Price, (3) in the case of partial redemption of any Securities, the principal amounts of the particular Securities to be redeemed, (4) that on the Redemption Date the Redemption Price will become due and payable upon each such Security, or portion thereof, to be redeemed and, if applicable, that interest thereon will cease to accrue on and after said date, (5) the place or places where such Securities are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price, and (6) that the redemption is for a sinking fund, if such is the case. Notice of redemption of Securities to be redeemed at the election of the Company shall be given by the Company or, at the Company's request, by the Trustee in the name and at the expense of the Company and shall be irrevocable. Section 1105. Deposit of Redemption Price. On or prior to 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the Redemption Date, the Company shall deposit with the Trustee or with a Paying Agent (or, if the Company is acting as its own Paying Agent, segregate and hold in trust as provided in Section 1003) an amount of money in the currency or currencies in which the Securities of such series are payable (except as otherwise specified pursuant to Section 301 for the Securities of such series) sufficient to pay the Redemption Price of, and (except if the Redemption Date shall be an Interest Payment Date) accrued interest on, all the Securities or portions thereof which are to be redeemed on that date. Section 1106. Securities Payable on Redemption Date. Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid, the Securities so to be redeemed shall, on the Redemption Date, become due and payable at the Redemption Price therein specified, and from and after such date (unless the Company shall default in the payment of the Redemption Price and accrued interest) such Securities shall cease to bear interest. Upon surrender of any such Security for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Security shall be paid by the Company at the Redemption Price, together with accrued interest to the Redemption Date; provided, however, that, unless otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301, installments of interest whose Stated Maturity is on or prior to the Redemption Date shall be payable to the Holders of such Securities, or one or more Predecessor Securities, registered as such at the close of business on the relevant Record Dates according to their terms and the provisions of Section 308. If any Security called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal and any premium shall, until paid, bear interest from the Redemption Date at the rate prescribed therefor in the Security. Section 1107. Securities Redeemed in Part. Any Security which is to be redeemed only in part shall be surrendered at a Place of Payment therefor (with, if the Company or the Trustee so requires, due endorsement by, or a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Company and the Trustee duly executed by, the Holder thereof or his attorney duly authorized in writing), and the Company shall execute, and the Trustee shall authenticate and deliver or make available for delivery to the Holder of such Security without service charge, a new Security or Securities of the same 46
series and of like tenor, of any authorized denomination as requested by such Holder, in aggregate principal amount equal to and in exchange for the unredeemed portion of the principal of the Security so surrendered. If a Book- Entry Security is so surrendered, such new Security so issued shall be a new Book-Entry Security. ARTICLE TWELVE SINKING FUNDS Section 1201. Applicability of Article. The provisions of this Article shall be applicable to any sinking fund for the retirement of Securities of a series except as otherwise specified as contemplated by Section 301 for Securities of such series. The minimum amount of any sinking fund payment provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as a "mandatory sinking fund payment", and any payment in excess of such minimum amount provided for by the terms of Securities of any series is herein referred to as an "optional sinking fund payment". If provided for by the terms of Securities of any series, the cash amount of any sinking fund payment may be subject to reduction as provided in Section 1202. Each sinking fund payment shall be applied to the redemption of Securities of any series as provided for by the terms of Securities of such series. Section 1202. Satisfaction of Sinking Fund Payments with Securities. The Company (1) may deliver Outstanding Securities of a series (other than any previously called for redemption) and (2) may apply as a credit Securities of a series which have been redeemed either at the election of the Company pursuant to the terms of such Securities or through the application of permitted optional sinking fund payments pursuant to the terms of such Securities, in each case in satisfaction of all or any part of any sinking fund payment with respect to the Securities of such series required to be made pursuant to the terms of such Securities as provided for by the terms of such series; provided that such Securities have not been previously so credited. Such Securities shall be received and credited for such purpose by the Trustee at the Redemption Price specified in such Securities for redemption through operation of the sinking fund and the amount of such sinking fund payment shall be reduced accordingly. Section 1203. Redemption of Securities for Sinking Fund. Not less than 45 days prior to each sinking fund payment date for any series of Securities, the Company will deliver to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate specifying the amount of the next ensuing sinking fund payment for that series pursuant to the terms of that series, the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by payment of cash and the portion thereof, if any, which is to be satisfied by delivering and crediting Securities of that series pursuant to Section 1202 and stating the basis for such credit and that such Securities have not been previously so credited and will also deliver to the Trustee any Securities to be so delivered. Not less than 30 days before each such sinking fund payment date the Trustee shall select the Securities to be redeemed upon such sinking fund payment date in the manner specified in Section 1103 and cause notice of the redemption thereof to be given in the name of and at the expense of the Company in the manner provided in Section 1104. Such notice having been duly given, the redemption of such Securities shall be made upon the terms and in the manner stated in Sections 1106 and 1107. ARTICLE THIRTEEN DEFEASANCE AND COVENANT DEFEASANCE Section 1301. Applicability of Article; Company's Option to Effect Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. Unless, pursuant to Section 301, provision is made that either or both of (a) defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 1302 or (b) covenant defeasance of the Securities of a series under Section 1303 shall not apply to the Securities of a series, then the provisions of such Section or Sections, as 47
the case may be, together with the other provisions of this Article Thirteen, with such modifications thereto as may be specified pursuant to Section 301 with respect to any Securities, shall be applicable to the Securities of such series, and the Company may at its option by Board Resolution, at any time, with respect to the Securities of such series, elect to have either Section 1302 (if applicable) or Section 1303 (if applicable) applied to the Outstanding Securities of such series upon compliance with the conditions set forth below in this Article Thirteen. Section 1302. Defeasance and Discharge. Upon the Company's exercise of its option to have this Section applied to any series of Securities, the Company shall be deemed to have been discharged from its obligations with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the conditions precedent set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "defeasance"). For this purpose, such defeasance means that the Company shall be deemed to have paid and discharged the entire indebtedness represented by the Outstanding Securities of such series which shall thereafter be deemed to be "Outstanding" only for the purposes of the Sections of this Indenture referred to in clauses (A) and (B) of this Section, and to have satisfied all its other obligations under such Securities and this Indenture insofar as such Securities are concerned (and the Trustee, at the expense of the Company, shall execute proper instruments acknowledging the same), except for the following which shall survive until otherwise terminated or discharged hereunder: (A) the rights of Holders of Outstanding Securities of such series to receive, solely from the trust fund described in Section 1304 as more fully set forth in such Section, payments of the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on such Securities when such payments are due, (B) the Company's obligations with respect to such Securities under Sections 306, 307, 1002 and 1003 and such obligations as shall be ancillary thereto, (C) the rights, powers, trusts, duties, immunities and other provisions in respect of the Trustee hereunder and (D) this Article Thirteen. Subject to compliance with this Article Thirteen, the Company may exercise its option under this Section 1302 notwithstanding the prior exercise of its option under Section 1303 with respect to the Securities of such series. Following a defeasance, payment of such Securities may not be accelerated because of an Event of Default. Section 1303. Covenant Defeasance. Upon the Company's exercise of its option (if any) to have this Section applied to any series of Securities, the Company shall be released from its obligations under Sections 801, 1005 and 1006 (and any covenant made applicable to such Securities pursuant to Section 301) and the occurrence of an event specified in Section 501(4) (with respect to any of Section 801, 1005 or 1006 or any such covenant) (and any other Event of Default applicable to such Securities that are determined pursuant to Section 301 to be subject to this provision) shall not be deemed to be an Event of Default with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series on and after the date the conditions set forth below are satisfied (hereinafter, "covenant defeasance"), and such Securities shall thereafter be deemed not to be "Outstanding" for the purposes of any direction, waiver, consent or declaration or Act of Holders (and the consequences of any thereof) in connection with Sections 801, 1005 and 1006 (and any other covenant made applicable to such Security pursuant to Section 301) and any such Events of Default, but shall continue to be deemed "Outstanding" for all other purposes hereunder. For this purpose, such covenant defeasance means that, with respect to the Outstanding Securities of such series, the Company may omit to comply with and shall have no liability in respect of any term, condition or limitation set forth in any such Section or such other covenant whether directly or indirectly by reason of any reference elsewhere herein to any such Section or such other covenant or by reason of any reference in any such Section or such other covenant to any other provision herein or in any other document, but the remainder of this Indenture and such Securities shall be unaffected thereby. Notwithstanding the defeasance by the Company of its obligations under Section 801, any successor shall be required to assume the Company's obligations under Section 607 as a condition to such succession. 48
Section 1304. Conditions to Defeasance or Covenant Defeasance. The following shall be the conditions precedent to application of either Section 1302 or Section 1303 to the Outstanding Securities of or within such series: (1) The Company shall irrevocably have deposited or caused to be deposited with the Trustee (or another trustee satisfying the requirements of Section 609 who shall agree to comply with the provisions of this Article Thirteen applicable to it) as trust funds in trust for the purpose of making the following payments, specifically pledged as security for, and dedicated solely to, the benefit of the Holders of such Securities, (A) money in an amount (in such currency, currencies or currency units in which such Securities are then specified as payable at Maturity), or (B) U.S. Government Obligations which through the scheduled payment of principal and interest in respect thereof in accordance with their terms will provide, not later than one day before the due date of any payment, money in an amount, or (C) a combination thereof in an amount, sufficient, without reinvestment, in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, to pay and discharge, and which shall be applied by the Trustee (or other qualifying trustee) to pay and discharge, (i) the principal of (and premium, if any) and interest on the Outstanding Securities of such series on the Maturity of such principal, premium, if any, or interest and (ii) any mandatory sinking fund payments applicable to such Securities on the day on which such payments are due and payable in accordance with the terms of this Indenture and such Securities. Before such a deposit the Company may make arrangements satisfactory to the Trustee for the redemption of Securities at a future date or dates in accordance with Article Eleven, which shall be given effect in applying the foregoing. For this purpose, "U.S. Government Obligations" means securities that are (x) direct obligations of the United States of America for the payment of which its full faith and credit is pledged or (y) obligations of a Person controlled or supervised by and acting as an agency or instrumentality of the United States of America the payment of which is unconditionally guaranteed as a full faith and credit obligation by the United States of America, which, in either case, are not callable or redeemable at the option of the issuer thereof, and shall also include a depositary receipt issued by a bank (as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) as custodian with respect to any such U.S. Government Obligation or a specific payment of principal of or interest on any such U.S. Government Obligation held by such custodian for the account of the holder of such depositary receipt, provided that (except as required by law) such custodian is not authorized to make any deduction from the amount payable to the holder of such depositary receipt from any amount received by the custodian in respect of the U.S. Government Obligation or the specific payment of principal of or interest on the U.S. Government Obligation evidenced by such depositary receipt. (2) No Event of Default or event which with notice or lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default with respect to the Securities of such series shall have occurred and be continuing (A) on the date of such deposit or (B) insofar as subsections 501(5) and (6) are concerned, at any time during the period ending on the 91st day after the date of such deposit or, if longer, ending on the day following the expiration of the longest preference period applicable to the Company in respect of such deposit (it being understood that this condition shall not be deemed satisfied until the expiration of such period). (3) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not (A) cause the Trustee for the Securities of such series to have a conflicting interest as defined in Section 608 or for purposes of the Trust Indenture Act with respect to any Securities of the Company or (B) result in the trust arising from such deposit to constitute, unless it is qualified as, a regulated investment company under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 49
(4) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall not result in a breach or violation of, or constitute a default under, this Indenture or any other material agreement or instrument to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound. (5) In the case of an election under Section 1302, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel stating that (x) the Company has received from, or there has been published by, the Internal Revenue Service a ruling, or (y) since the date of this Indenture there has been a change in the applicable federal income tax law, in either case to the effect that, and based thereon such opinion shall confirm that, the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such defeasance had not occurred. (6) In the case of an election under Section 1303, the Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Opinion of Counsel to the effect that the Holders of the Outstanding Securities of such series will not recognize income, gain or loss for federal income tax purposes as a result of such covenant defeasance and will be subject to federal income tax on the same amounts, in the same manner and at the same times as would have been the case if such covenant defeasance had not occurred. (7) Such defeasance or covenant defeasance shall be effected in compliance with any additional terms, conditions or limitations which may be imposed on the Company in connection therewith pursuant to Section 301. (8) The Company shall have delivered to the Trustee an Officers' Certificate and an Opinion of Counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for relating to either the defeasance under Section 1302 or the covenant defeasance under Section 1303 (as the case may be) have been complied with. Section 1305. Deposited Money and U.S. Government Obligations to be Held in Trust; Other Miscellaneous Provisions. Subject to the provisions of the last paragraph of Section 1003, all money and U.S. Government Obligations (including the proceeds thereof) deposited with the Trustee or other qualifying trustee (collectively, for purposes of this Section 1305, the "Trustee") pursuant to Section 1304 in respect of the Outstanding Securities of such series shall be held in trust and applied by the Trustee, in accordance with the provisions of such Securities and this Indenture, to the payment, either directly or through any Paying Agent (but not including the Company acting as its own Paying Agent) as the Trustee may determine, to the Holders of such Securities, of all sums due and to become due thereon in respect of principal (and premium, if any) and interest, but such money need not be segregated from other funds except to the extent required by law. The Company shall pay and indemnify the Trustee against any tax, fee or other charge imposed on or assessed against the money or U.S. Government Obligations deposited pursuant to Section 1304 or the principal and interest received in respect thereof. Anything herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Trustee shall deliver or pay to the Company from time to time upon Company Request any money or U.S. Government Obligations held by it as provided in Section 1304 which in the opinion of a nationally recognized firm of independent public accountants expressed in a written certification thereof delivered to the Trustee, are in excess of the amount thereof which would then be required to be deposited to effect an equivalent defeasance or covenant defeasance. Section 1306. Reinstatement. If the Trustee or the Paying Agent is unable to apply any money in accordance with Section 1305 by reason of any order or judgment or any court or governmental authority enjoining, restraining or otherwise prohibiting such 50
application, then the Company's obligations under the Securities of such series shall be revived and reinstated as though no deposit had occurred pursuant to this Article Thirteen until such time as the Trustee or Paying Agent is permitted to apply all such money in accordance with Section 1305; provided, however, that if the Company makes any payment of principal of (and premium, if any) or interest on any such Security following the reinstatement of its obligations, the Company shall be subrogated to the rights of the Holders of such Securities to receive such payment from the money held by the Trustee or the Paying Agent. Section 1307. Qualifying Trustee. Any trustee appointed pursuant to Section 1304 for the purpose of holding trust funds deposited pursuant to that Section shall be appointed under an agreement in form acceptable to the Trustee and shall provide to the Trustee a certificate of such trustee, upon which certificate the Trustee shall be entitled to conclusively rely, that all conditions precedent provided for herein to the related defeasance or covenant defeasance have been complied with. In no event shall the Trustee be liable for any acts or omissions of said trustee. ARTICLE FOURTEEN IMMUNITY OF INCORPORATORS, STOCKHOLDERS, OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND EMPLOYEES Section 1401. Exemption from Individual Liability. No recourse under or upon any obligation, covenant or agreement of this Indenture, or of any Security, or for any claim based thereon or otherwise in respect thereof, shall be had against any incorporator, stockholder, officer, director, or employee, as such, past, present or future, of the Company or of any successor corporation, either directly or through the Company, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute or rule of law, or by the enforcement of any assessment or penalty or otherwise; it being expressly understood that this Indenture and the obligations issued hereunder are solely corporate obligations of the Company, and that no such personal liability whatever shall attach to, or is or shall be incurred by, the incorporators, stockholders, officers, directors, or employees, as such, of the Company or of any successor corporation, or any of them, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom; and that any and all such personal liability, either at common law or in equity or by constitution or statute, of, and any and all such rights and claims against, every such incorporator, stockholder, officer, director, or employee, as such, because of the creation of the indebtedness hereby authorized, or under or by reason of the obligations, covenants or agreements contained in this Indenture or in any of the Securities or implied therefrom, are hereby expressly waived and released as a condition of, and as a consideration for, the execution of this Indenture and the issue of such Securities. ***** 51
This instrument may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Indenture to be duly executed as of the day and year first above written. MONSANTO COMPANY By: /s/ Robert A. Paley ------------------- Name: Robert A. Paley Title: Assistant Treasurer THE BANK OF NEW YORK By: /s/ Robert A. Massimillo ------------------------ Name: Robert A. Masssimillo Title: Vice President 52

EXHIBIT 4.3 ------------------------------------- Registration Rights Agreement Dated As of August 25, 2005 among Monsanto Company and Banc of America Securities LLC ABN AMRO Incorporated Barclays Capital Inc. Calyon Securities (USA) Inc. KBC Financial Products USA Inc. J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. Citigroup Global Markets Inc. Rabo Securities USA, Inc. The Williams Capital Group, L.P. ---------------------------
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT THIS REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into this 25th day of August, 2005, among MONSANTO COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), and BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC; ABN AMRO INCORPORATED; BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC.; CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC.; KBC FINANCIAL PRODUCTS USA INC.; J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC.; CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC.; RABO SECURITIES USA, INC.; SPP CAPITAL PARTNERS, LLC; and THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP, L.P. (collectively, the "Dealer Managers"), on behalf of themselves and on behalf of the Holders of 144A Notes (as those terms are defined herein). This Agreement is made in connection with the Dealer Manager Agreement, dated July 25, 2005, as amended by the First Amendment to the Dealer Manager Agreement, dated August 3, 2005, among the Company and the Dealer Managers (the "Dealer Manager Agreement"), which provides for the offer by the Company to exchange its Senior Notes due 2025 (the "144A Notes") for up to $400,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7-3/8% Senior Notes due 2012 (the "Old Notes") validly tendered in the exchange offer and not properly withdrawn, on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Offering Memorandum, dated July 25, 2005 (the "Offering Memorandum"). In consideration of the foregoing, the parties hereto agree as follows: 1. Definitions. As used in this Agreement, the following capitalized defined terms shall have the following meanings: "144A Notes" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "1933 Act" shall mean the Securities Act of 1933, as amended from time to time. "1934 Act" shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of l934, as amended from time to time. "Additional Interest" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5. "Business Day" shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or a legal holiday or a day on which banking institutions or trust companies are authorized or obligated by law to close in New York City, New York. "Closing Date" shall mean the Acceptance Date as defined in the Dealer Manager Agreement. "Company" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble and shall also include the Company's successors. "Dealer Manager" or "Dealer Managers" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Dealer Manager Agreement" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Depositary" shall mean The Depository Trust Company. "Effectiveness Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.2(b). "Exchange Offer" shall mean the exchange offer by the Company of Registered Notes for 144A Notes pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof. 1
"Exchange Offer Registration Statement" shall mean an exchange offer registration statement on Form S-4 (or, if applicable, on another appropriate form or on any successor form used for substantially the same transactions), and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including the Prospectus (as such term is defined herein) contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all documents incorporated by reference therein. "Exchange Period" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.1(b) hereof. "Holder" shall mean each Person who becomes the registered owner of 144A Notes or Registered Notes, as the case may be. "Indenture" shall mean the indenture, dated as of August 1, 2002, between the Company and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., as successor trustee, relating to the issuance of debt securities by the Company from time to time, as the same may be amended, supplemented, waived or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with the terms thereof, and including any Board Resolution delivered to the Trustee under Section 301 of the Indenture relating to the 144A Notes or Registered Notes. "Majority Holders" shall mean the Holders of a majority of the aggregate principal amount of 144A Notes participating in a Shelf Registration. "NASD" shall mean the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. "Old Notes" shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble. "Person" shall mean an individual, partnership (general or limited), corporation, limited liability company, trust or unincorporated organization, or a government or agency or political subdivision thereof. "Prospectus" shall mean the prospectus included in a Registration Statement, including any preliminary prospectus, and any such prospectus as amended or supplemented by any prospectus supplement, including any such prospectus supplement with respect to the terms of the offering of any portion of the 144A Notes covered by a Shelf Registration Statement, and by all other amendments and supplements to a prospectus, including post-effective amendments, and in each case including all material incorporated by reference therein. "Registered Notes" shall mean the 5 1/2% Senior Notes due 2025, issued by the Company under the Indenture and containing terms identical to the 144A Notes in all material respects (except for registration rights, transfer restrictions and liquidated damages provisions), to be offered to Holders of 144A Notes in exchange therefor pursuant to the Exchange Offer. "Registration Default" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.5. "Registration Expenses" shall mean any and all reasonable expenses incident to performance of or compliance by the Company with this Agreement, including without limitation: (i) all SEC registration and filing fees, (ii) all fees and expenses incurred in connection with compliance with state securities or blue sky laws and compliance with the rules of the NASD, (iii) all expenses of any Persons in preparing or assisting in preparing, printing and distributing any Registration Statement, any Prospectus, any underwriting agreements, securities sales agreements and other documents relating to the performance of and compliance with this Agreement, (iv) the fees and disbursements of counsel for 2
the Company and of the independent public accountants of the Company, including the expenses of any special audits or "cold comfort" letters required by or incident to such performance and compliance, (v) the fees and expenses of the Trustee, and any escrow agent or custodian, and (vi) the reasonable fees and disbursements of one counsel designated by the Majority Holders for purposes described in Section 3. "Registration Statement" shall mean any registration statement of the Company which covers any of the Registered Notes or 144A Notes, as the case may be pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement, and all amendments and supplements to any such Registration Statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "SEC" shall mean the Securities and Exchange Commission. "Shelf Registration" shall mean a registration effected pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof. "Shelf Registration Statement" shall mean a "shelf" registration statement of the Company pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.2 of this Agreement which covers all of the 144A Notes on an appropriate form under Rule 415 under the 1933 Act, or any successor or similar rule that may be adopted by the SEC, and all amendments and supplements to such registration statement, including post-effective amendments, in each case including the Prospectus contained therein, all exhibits thereto and all material incorporated by reference therein. "Trustee" shall mean the trustee with respect to the 144A Notes and the Registered Notes under the Indenture. "Underwriter" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 2. Registration Under the 1933 Act. 2.1. Exchange Offer. The Company shall, for the benefit of the Holders, at the Company's cost, (A) prepare and, as soon as practicable but not later than 90 days following the Closing Date, file with the SEC an Exchange Offer Registration Statement with respect to a proposed Exchange Offer and the issuance and delivery to the Holders, in exchange for the 144A Notes, of a like principal amount of Registered Notes, (B) use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer Registration Statement to be declared effective under the 1933 Act within 180 days of the Closing Date, (C) use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Exchange Offer Registration Statement effective until the closing of the Exchange Offer and (D) use its reasonable best efforts to cause the Exchange Offer to be consummated not later than 225 days following the Closing Date. Upon the effectiveness of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, the Company shall promptly commence the Exchange Offer, it being the objective of such Exchange Offer to enable each Holder eligible and electing to exchange 144A Notes for Registered Notes (assuming that such Holder (a) is not an affiliate of the Company within the meaning of Rule 405 under the 1933 Act, (b) is not a broker-dealer tendering 144A Notes acquired directly from the Company for its own account, (c) acquired or will acquire the 144A Notes and Registered Notes in the ordinary course of such Holder's business and (d) has no arrangements or understandings with any Person to participate in the Exchange Offer for the purpose of distributing the Registered Notes) to transfer such Registered Notes from and after their receipt without any limitations or restrictions under the 1933 Act and under state securities or blue sky laws. In connection with the Exchange Offer, the Company shall: 3
(a) mail as promptly as practicable to each Holder a copy of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement, together with an appropriate letter of transmittal and related documents; (b) keep the Exchange Offer open for acceptance for a period of not less than 20 Business Days, and not more than 40 Business Days, after the date notice thereof is mailed to the Holders (or longer if required by applicable law) (such period referred to herein as the "Exchange Period"); (c) utilize the services of the Depositary for the Exchange Offer; (d) permit Holders to withdraw tendered 144A Notes at any time prior to 5:00 p.m. (Eastern Time), on the last business day of the Exchange Period, by sending to the institution specified in the notice, a telegram, telex, facsimile transmission or letter setting forth the name of such Holder, the principal amount of 144A Notes delivered for exchange, and a statement that such Holder is withdrawing such Holder's election to have such 144A Notes exchanged; and (e) otherwise comply in all respects with all applicable laws relating to the Exchange Offer. As soon as practicable after the expiration date of the Exchange Offer, the Company shall: (i) accept for exchange all 144A Notes duly tendered and not validly withdrawn pursuant to the Exchange Offer in accordance with the terms of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement and the letter of transmittal which shall be an exhibit thereto; deliver to the Trustee for cancellation all 144A Notes so accepted for exchange; and (ii) cause the Trustee promptly to authenticate and deliver Registered Notes to each Holder of 144A Notes so accepted for exchange in a principal amount equal to the principal amount of the 144A Notes of such Holder so accepted for exchange. Interest on each Registered Note will accrue from the last date on which interest was paid on the 144A Notes surrendered in exchange therefor or, if no interest has been paid on the 144A Notes, from the date of original issuance of the 144A Notes. The Exchange Offer shall not be subject to any conditions, other than: (i) that the Exchange Offer, or the making of any exchange by a Holder, does not violate applicable law or any applicable interpretation of the staff of the SEC; (ii) the due tendering of 144A Notes in accordance with the Exchange Offer; (iii) that each Holder of 144A Notes exchanged in the Exchange Offer shall have represented that (a) it is not an "affiliate" of the Company (as defined in Rule 405 under the 1933 Act), (b) it is not a broker-dealer tendering 144A Notes acquired directly from the Company for its own account, (c) all Registered Notes to be received by it shall be acquired in the ordinary course of its business, and (d) at the time of the consummation of the Exchange Offer it shall have no arrangement or understanding with any person to participate in the distribution (within the meaning of the 1933 Act) of the Registered Notes and shall have made such other representations as may be reasonably necessary under applicable SEC rules, regulations or interpretations to render the use of Form S-4 or other appropriate form under the 1933 Act available; and (iv) that no action or proceeding shall have been instituted or threatened in any court or 4
by or before any governmental agency with respect to the Exchange Offer which, in the Company's judgment, would reasonably be expected to impair the ability of the Company to proceed with the Exchange Offer. The Registered Notes will have the right to vote and consent as a single class with the 144A Notes on all matters on which Holders of the Registered Notes or 144A Notes are entitled to vote and consent. 2.2. Shelf Registration. (i) If, because of any changes in law, SEC rules or regulations or applicable interpretations thereof by the staff of the SEC, the Company determines, upon the advice of its outside legal counsel, that it is not permitted to effect the Exchange Offer as contemplated by Section 2.1 hereof, (ii) if for any other reason the Exchange Offer is not consummated within 225 days after the original issue of the 144A Notes, or (iii) if a Holder notifies the Company in writing prior to the 20th day following the consummation of the Exchange Offer that it is not permitted to participate in the Exchange Offer or does not receive fully tradable Registered Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer, then in case of each of clauses (i) through (iii) the Company shall, at its cost: (a) As promptly as practicable, but no later than 45 days after being required to do so under Section 2.2(i) hereof, file with the SEC, and thereafter shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause to be declared effective as promptly as practicable but no later than 180 days after being required to do so under Section 2.2(i) hereof, a Shelf Registration Statement relating to the offer and sale of the 144A Notes by the Holders from time to time in accordance with the methods of distribution elected by the Majority Holders and set forth in such Shelf Registration Statement; (b) Use its reasonable best efforts to keep the Shelf Registration Statement continuously effective in order to permit the Prospectus forming part thereof to be usable by Holders for a period of two years from the Closing Date, or for such shorter period that will terminate when all 144A Notes covered by the Shelf Registration Statement (i) have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement, (ii) are eligible for resale to the public pursuant to Rule 144(k) under the 1933 Act, (iii) such shall have ceased to be outstanding or (iv) the Exchange Offer is consummated (the "Effectiveness Period"). (c) Notwithstanding any other provisions hereof, use its reasonable best efforts to ensure that (i) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto and any Prospectus forming part thereof and any supplement thereto complies in all material respects with the 1933 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, (ii) any Shelf Registration Statement and any amendment thereto does not, when it becomes effective, contain an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading and (iii) any Prospectus forming part of any Shelf Registration Statement, and any supplement to such Prospectus (as amended or supplemented from time to time), does not include an untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. The Company shall not permit any securities other than 144A Notes to be included in the Shelf Registration Statement. The Company further agrees, if necessary, to supplement or amend the Shelf Registration Statement, as required 5
by Section 3(b) below, and to furnish to the Holders of 144A Notes copies of any such supplement or amendment promptly after its being used or filed with the SEC. 2.3. Expenses. The Company shall pay all Registration Expenses in connection with the registration pursuant to Section 2.1 or 2.2. Each Holder shall pay all underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of such Holder's 144A Notes pursuant to the Shelf Registration Statement. 2.4. Effectiveness. An Exchange Offer Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof or a Shelf Registration Statement pursuant to Section 2.2 hereof will not be deemed to have become effective unless it has been declared effective by the SEC; provided, however, that if, after it has been declared effective, the offering of Registered Notes pursuant to an Exchange Offer Registration Statement or 144A Notes pursuant to a Shelf Registration Statement is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or any other governmental agency or court, such Registration Statement will be deemed not to have become effective during the period of such interference, until the offering of Registered Notes or 144A Notes, as the case may be, pursuant to such Registration Statement may legally resume. 2.5. Interest. (i) In the event that any of (a) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement is not filed with the SEC on or prior to the 90th calendar day following the date of original issue of the 144A Notes (or if such 90th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (b) the Exchange Offer Registration Statement has not been declared effective on or prior to the 180th calendar day following the date of original issue of the 144A Notes (or if such 180th day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day), (c) the Shelf Registration Statement has not been declared effective on or prior to the 180th calendar day after being required to do so under Section 2.2(i) hereof, (d) neither the Exchange Offer is consummated nor a Shelf Registration Statement is declared effective on or prior to the 225th calendar day following the date of original issue of the 144A Notes, (e) any Registration Statement required by this Agreement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective (other than after such time as all 144A Notes or Registered Notes, as the case may be, have been disposed of hereunder) or is not usable for its intended purpose, except if it is succeeded promptly (within 10 Business Days of the Registration Statement ceasing to be effective or usable) by a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement that cures such failure and that is itself promptly declared effective (within 15 Business Days of filing), or (f) any Shelf Registration Statement is filed and declared effective but shall thereafter cease to be effective or is not usable for its intended purposes for a period of time that exceeds 60 days in the aggregate in any 12-month period in which it is required to be effective under this Agreement (each such event referred to in clauses (a) through (f) above, a "Registration Default"), the interest rate borne by the 144A Notes held by a Holder shall be increased ("Additional Interest") by 0.25 percent per annum during the 90 day period immediately following the occurrence of any such Registration Default, which rate will increase by 0.25 percent at the end of each subsequent 90-day period that such Additional Interest continues to accrue under any such circumstance, provided that the maximum aggregate increase in the interest rate will in no event exceed 0.50 percent per annum. Following the cure of all Registration Defaults the accrual of Additional Interest will cease and the interest rate will revert to the original rate. Any additional interest will constitute liquidated damages and will be the exclusive remedy, monetary or otherwise, available to any Holder with respect to any Registration Defaults. 6
The Company shall notify the Trustee within three Business Days after each and every date on which an event occurs in respect of which Additional Interest is required to be paid (an "Event Date"). Additional Interest shall be paid by depositing with the Trustee, in trust, for the benefit of the Holders of 144A Notes entitled thereto, on or before the applicable semiannual interest payment date, immediately available funds in sums sufficient to pay the Additional Interest then due. The Additional Interest due shall be payable on each interest payment date to the record Holder of 144A Notes entitled to receive the interest payment to be paid on such date as set forth in the Indenture. Each obligation to pay Additional Interest shall be deemed to accrue from and including the day following the applicable Event Date. (ii) The Company may delay the filing of any registration statement contemplated by paragraph (i) above, or terminate or suspend the effectiveness thereof, if the Company determines, in its good faith judgment, that certain disclosure which would otherwise be required at the time is not in the best interests of the Company (an "Allowed Delay"); provided, in the case of a termination or suspension of effectiveness, that the Company shall promptly advise the Holders in writing to cease all sales under the Shelf Registration Statement until the end of the Allowed Delay. 3. Registration Procedures. In connection with the obligations of the Company with respect to Registration Statements pursuant to Sections 2.1 and 2.2 hereof, the Company shall: (a) prepare and file with the SEC a Registration Statement, within the relevant time period specified in Section 2, (ii) shall, in the case of a Shelf Registration, be available for the sale of the 144A Notes by the selling Holders thereof, (iii) shall comply as to form in all material respects with the requirements of the applicable form and include or incorporate by reference all financial statements required by the SEC to be filed therewith or incorporated by reference therein, and (iv) shall comply in all respects with the requirements of Regulation S-T under the 1933 Act, and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Registration Statement to become effective and remain effective in accordance with Section 2 hereof; (b) prepare and file with the SEC such amendments and post-effective amendments to each Registration Statement as may be necessary under applicable law to keep such Registration Statement effective for the applicable period; and cause each Prospectus to be supplemented by any required prospectus supplement, and as so supplemented to be filed pursuant to Rule 424 (or any similar provision then in force) under the 1933 Act and comply with the provisions of the 1933 Act, the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to them with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by each Registration Statement during the applicable period in accordance with the intended method or methods of distribution by the selling Holders thereof; (c) in the case of a Shelf Registration, (i) notify each Holder of 144A Notes to be included in a Shelf Registration Statement, at least five Business Days prior to filing, that a Shelf Registration Statement with respect to such 144A Notes is being filed and advising such Holders that the distribution of such 144A Notes will be made in accordance with the method selected by the Majority Holders; (ii) furnish to each Holder of 144A Notes to be included in a Shelf Registration Statement, without charge, as many copies of each Prospectus, including each preliminary Prospectus, and any amendment or supplement thereto as such Holder or underwriter may reasonably request; and (iii) be deemed to have consented to the use of the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement 7
thereto by each of the selling Holders of 144A Notes in connection with the offering and sale of the 144A Notes covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto included in the Shelf Registration Statement; (d) use its commercially reasonable efforts to register or qualify the Registered Notes under all applicable state securities or blue sky laws of such jurisdictions as any Holder of Registered Notes covered by a Registration Statement shall reasonably request by the time the applicable Registration Statement is declared effective by the SEC, and do any and all other acts and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each such Holder to consummate the disposition in each such jurisdiction of such Registered Notes owned by such Holder; provided, however, that the Company shall not be required to (i) qualify as a foreign corporation or as a dealer in securities in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this Section 3(d), or (ii) take any action which would subject it to general service of process or taxation in any such jurisdiction where it is not then so subject; (e) notify promptly each Holder of 144A Notes under a Shelf Registration and, if requested by such Holder, confirm such advice in writing promptly (i) when a Registration Statement has become effective and when any post-effective amendments and supplements thereto become effective, (ii) of any request by the SEC or any state securities authority for post-effective amendments and supplements to a Registration Statement and Prospectus or for additional information after the Registration Statement has become effective, (iii) of the issuance by the SEC or any state securities authority of any stop order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement or the initiation of any proceedings for that purpose, (iv) of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts during the period a Shelf Registration Statement is effective which makes any statement made in such Registration Statement or the related Prospectus untrue in any material respect or which requires the making of any changes in such Registration Statement or Prospectus in order to make the statements therein not misleading, (v) of the receipt by the Company of any notification with respect to the suspension of the qualification of the Registered Notes or the 144A Notes, as the case may be, for sale in any jurisdiction or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and (vi) of any determination by the Company that a post-effective amendment to such Registration Statement would be appropriate; (f) in the case of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement (i) include in the Exchange Offer Registration Statement a section entitled "Plan of Distribution" which shall contain a statement that any such broker-dealer who receives Registered Notes for 144A Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer may be deemed a statutory underwriter and must deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of such Registered Notes, (ii) be deemed to have consented to the use of the Prospectus forming part of the Exchange Offer Registration Statement or any amendment or supplement thereto, by any Person subject to the prospectus delivery requirements of the SEC in connection with the sale or transfer of the Registered Notes covered by the Prospectus or any amendment or supplement thereto, and (iii) include in the transmittal letter or similar documentation to be executed by an exchange offeree in order to participate in the Exchange Offer (x) the following provision (or any substantially similar provision): "If you are a broker-dealer holding Registered Notes acquired for your own account as a result of market-making activities or other trading activities, you are required to deliver a prospectus meeting the requirements of the 1933 Act in connection with any resale of Registered 8
Notes received in respect of such Registered Notes pursuant to the Exchange Offer;" and (y) a statement to the effect that by a broker-dealer making the acknowledgment described in clause (x) and by delivering a Prospectus in connection with the exchange of Registered Notes, the broker-dealer will not be deemed to admit that it is an underwriter within the meaning of the 1933 Act; (g) make every reasonable effort to obtain the withdrawal of any order suspending the effectiveness of a Registration Statement at the earliest possible moment; (h) in the case of a Shelf Registration, furnish to each Holder of 144A Notes without charge one conformed copy of each Registration Statement and any post-effective amendment thereto, including financial statements and schedules (without documents incorporated therein by reference or any exhibits thereto); (i) in the case of a Shelf Registration, cooperate with the selling Holders of 144A Notes to facilitate the timely preparation and delivery of certificates representing 144A Notes to be sold and not bearing any restrictive legends; and enable such 144A Notes to be in such denominations (consistent with the provisions of the Indenture) and registered in such names as the selling Holders or the underwriters, if any, may reasonably request at least three Business Days prior to the closing of any sale of 144A Notes; (j) in the case of a Shelf Registration, upon the occurrence of any event or the discovery of any facts, each as contemplated by Sections 3(e)(iv) and 3(e)(v) hereof, as promptly as practicable after the occurrence of such an event, use its reasonable best efforts to prepare a supplement or post-effective amendment to the Registration Statement or the related Prospectus or any document incorporated therein by reference or file any other required document so that, as thereafter delivered to the purchasers of the 144A Notes, such Prospectus will not contain at the time of such delivery any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading or will remain so qualified, and at such time as such public disclosure is otherwise made or the Company determines that such disclosure is not necessary, in each case to correct any misstatement of a material fact or to include any omitted material fact, promptly notify each Holder of such determination and furnish each Holder such number of copies of the Prospectus as amended or supplemented, as such Holder may reasonably request; (k) obtain a CUSIP number for all 144A Notes or Registered Notes, as the case may be, not later than the effective date of a Registration Statement, and provide the Trustee with certificates for the 144A Notes or the Registered Notes, as the case may be, in a form eligible for deposit with the Depositary; (l) in the case of a Shelf Registration, enter into agreements (which may include underwriting agreements) and take all other customary and appropriate actions in order to expedite or facilitate the disposition of such 144A Notes and in such connection: (i) make such representations and warranties to the Holders of such 144A Notes and the underwriters, if any, in form, substance and scope as are customarily made by issuers to underwriters in similar underwritten offerings as may be reasonably requested by them; 9
(ii) obtain opinions of counsel to the Company and updates thereof (which counsel and opinions (in form, scope and substance) shall be reasonably satisfactory to the managing underwriters, if any, and the Majority Holders) addressed to each selling Holder and the underwriters, if any, covering the matters customarily covered in opinions requested in sales of securities or underwritten offerings and such other matters as may be reasonably requested by such Holders and underwriters; (iii) obtain "cold comfort" letters and updates thereof from the Company's independent certified public accountants (and, if necessary, any other independent certified public accountants of any subsidiary of the Company or of any business acquired by the Company for which financial statements are, or are required to be, included in the Registration Statement) addressed to the underwriters, if any, and use reasonable efforts to have such letter addressed to the selling Holders of 144A Notes (to the extent consistent with Statement on Auditing Standards No. 72 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accounts), such letters to be in customary form and covering matters of the type customarily covered in "cold comfort" letters to underwriters in connection with similar underwritten offerings; (iv) if an underwriting agreement is entered into, cause the same to set forth indemnification provisions and procedures substantially equivalent to the indemnification provisions and procedures set forth in Section 4 hereof with respect to the underwriters and all other parties to be indemnified pursuant to said Section or, at the request of any underwriters, in the form customarily provided to such underwriters in similar types of transactions; and (v) deliver such documents and certificates as may be reasonably requested and as are customarily delivered in similar offerings to the Majority Holders and the managing underwriters, if any. The above shall be done at (i) the effectiveness of such Registration Statement (and each post-effective amendment thereto) and (ii) each closing under any underwriting or similar agreement as and to the extent required thereunder; (m) in the case of a Shelf Registration, within two Business Days prior to filing any Shelf Registration Statement or any Prospectus forming a part thereof, or any amendment or supplement thereto, provide copies of such document to the Holders of 144A Notes participating in the Shelf Registration, to one counsel designated by the Majority Holders, if any, and to the underwriter or underwriters of an underwritten offering of 144A Notes, if any, make such changes in any such document prior to the filing thereof as the Holders, counsel to the Majority Holders or the underwriter or underwriters reasonably request and not file any such document in a form to which the Majority Holders, counsel to the Majority Holders or any underwriter shall reasonably object within two Business Days; (n) otherwise comply with all applicable rules and regulations of the SEC; (o) cooperate and assist in any filings required to be made with the NASD and, in the case of a Shelf Registration, in the performance of any due diligence investigation by any underwriter and its counsel (including any "qualified independent underwriter" that is required to be retained in accordance with the rules and regulations of the NASD); and 10
(p) upon consummation of an Exchange Offer, obtain a customary opinion of counsel to the Company addressed to the Trustee for the benefit of all Holders of 144A Notes participating in the Exchange Offer, and which includes an opinion that (i) the Company has duly authorized, executed and delivered the Registered Notes and the related Indenture, and (ii) each of the Registered Notes and related Indenture constitute a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company, enforceable against the Company in accordance with its respective terms (with customary exceptions). If following the date hereof there has been a change in SEC policy with respect to exchange offers such as the Exchange Offer, such that in the opinion of counsel to the Company there is a substantial question as to whether the Exchange Offer is permitted by applicable federal law, the Company hereby agrees to seek a no-action letter or other favorable decision from the SEC allowing the Company to consummate an Exchange Offer for the 144A Notes. The Company shall pursue the issuance of such a decision to the SEC staff level. In connection with the foregoing, the Company shall take all such other actions as are reasonably requested by the SEC or otherwise required in connection with the issuance of such decision, including without limitation (A) participating in telephonic conferences with the SEC, (B) delivering to the SEC staff an analysis prepared by counsel to the Company, setting forth the legal basis, if any, upon which such counsel has concluded that such an Exchange Offer shall be permitted and (C) diligently pursuing a resolution (which need not be favorable) by the SEC staff of such submission. In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, as a condition to a Holder's participation in the Shelf Registration and/or receipt of Additional Interest in accordance with Section 2.5, each Holder of 144A Notes shall furnish to the Company such information regarding the Holder and the proposed distribution by such Holder of such 144A Notes as the Company may from time to time reasonably request in writing. In the case of a Shelf Registration Statement, each Holder agrees that, upon receipt of any notice from the Company of the happening of any event or the discovery of any facts, each of the kind described in Section 3(e)(v) hereof, such Holder will forthwith discontinue disposition of 144A Notes pursuant to a Registration Statement until such Holder's receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended Prospectus contemplated by Section 3(j) hereof, and, if so directed by the Company, such Holder will deliver to the Company (at its expense) all copies in such Holder's possession, other than permanent file copies then in such Holder's possession, of the Prospectus covering such 144A Notes current at the time of receipt of such notice. If any of the 144A Notes covered by any Shelf Registration Statement are to be sold in an underwritten offering, the underwriter or underwriters and manager or managers that will manage such offering will be selected by the Majority Holders of such 144A Notes included in such offering and shall be acceptable to the Company. No Holder of 144A Notes may participate in any underwritten registration hereunder unless such Holder (a) agrees to sell such Holder's 144A Notes on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the persons entitled hereunder to approve such arrangements and (b) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements. 11
4. Indemnification; Contribution. (a) The Company agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Dealer Managers, each Holder, each Person who participates as an underwriter (any such Person being an "Underwriter"), and the directors, officers, employees and agents of each such Dealer Manager, Holder, and Person and each Person, if any, who controls any Holder or Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act as follows: (i) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense, as incurred, arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Registration Statement (or any amendment or supplement thereto) pursuant to which 144A Notes or Registered Notes were registered under the 1933 Act, including all documents incorporated therein by reference, or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, or arising out of any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto) or the omission or alleged omission therefrom of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; (ii) against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense, as incurred, to the extent of the aggregate amount paid in settlement of any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or of any claim based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission; provided that (subject to Section 4(d) below) any such settlement is effected with the written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld; and (iii) against any and all expense, as incurred (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel chosen by any indemnified party), reasonably incurred in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim based upon any such untrue statement or omission, or any such alleged untrue statement or omission, to the extent that any such expense is not paid under subparagraph (i) or (ii) above; provided, however, that this indemnity agreement shall not apply to any loss, liability, claim, damage or expense to the extent arising out of any untrue statement or omission or alleged untrue statement or omission made in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by the Dealer Managers, Holder or Underwriter expressly for use in a Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (b) Each Dealer Manager severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company and each Underwriter and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company or the Underwriter within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense 12
described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a) hereof, as incurred, with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Dealer Manager expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (c) Each Holder severally, but not jointly, agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Company, the Dealer Managers, each Underwriter and the other selling Holders, and each of their respective directors and officers, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company, the Dealer Managers, any Underwriter or any other selling Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act, against any and all loss, liability, claim, damage and expense described in the indemnity contained in Section 4(a) hereof, as incurred, with respect to untrue statements or omissions, or alleged untrue statements or omissions, made in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or any Prospectus included therein (or any amendment or supplement thereto) in reliance upon and in conformity with written information furnished to the Company by such Holder expressly for use in the Shelf Registration Statement (or any amendment thereto) or such Prospectus (or any amendment or supplement thereto). (d) Each indemnified party shall give written notice as promptly as reasonably practicable to each indemnifying party of any action or proceeding commenced against it in respect of which indemnity may be sought hereunder, but failure so to notify an indemnifying party shall not relieve such indemnifying party from any liability hereunder to the extent it is not materially prejudiced as a result thereof and in any event shall not relieve it from any liability which it may have otherwise than on account of this indemnity agreement. An indemnifying party may participate at its own expense in the defense of such action. In no event shall the indemnifying party or parties be liable for the fees and expenses of more than one counsel (in addition to any local counsel) separate from their own counsel for all indemnified parties in connection with any one action or separate but similar or related actions in the same jurisdiction arising out of the same general allegations or circumstances. No indemnifying party shall, without the prior written consent of the indemnified parties, settle or compromise or consent to the entry of any judgment with respect to any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim whatsoever in respect of which indemnification or contribution could be sought under this Section 4 (whether or not the indemnified parties are actual or potential parties thereto), unless such settlement, compromise or consent (i) includes an unconditional release of each indemnified party from all liability arising out of such litigation, investigation, proceeding or claim and (ii) does not include a statement as to or an admission of fault, culpability or a failure to act by or on behalf of any indemnified party. (e) If the indemnification provided for in this Section 4 is for any reason unavailable to or insufficient to hold harmless an indemnified party in respect of any losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses referred to therein, then each indemnifying party shall contribute to the aggregate amount of such losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by such indemnified party, as incurred, in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Dealer Managers on 13
the other hand in connection with the statements or omissions which resulted in such losses, liabilities, claims, damages or expenses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. The relative fault of the Company on the one hand and the Holders and the Dealer Managers on the other hand shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether any such untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Company, on the one hand, or by the Holders or the Dealer Managers, on the other hand, and the parties' relative intent, knowledge, access to information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Company, the Holders and the Dealer Managers agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 4 were determined by pro rata allocation (even if the Dealer Managers were treated as one entity for such purpose) or by any other method of allocation which does not take account of the equitable considerations referred to above in this Section 4. The aggregate amount of losses, liabilities, claims, damages and expenses incurred by an indemnified party and referred to above in this Section 4 shall be deemed to include any legal or other expenses reasonably incurred by such indemnified party in investigating, preparing or defending against any litigation, or any investigation or proceeding by any governmental agency or body, commenced or threatened, or any claim based upon any such untrue or alleged untrue statement or omission or alleged omission. No Person guilty of fraudulent misrepresentation (within the meaning of Section 11(f) of the 1933 Act) shall be entitled to contribution from any Person who was not guilty of such fraudulent misrepresentation. For purposes of this Section 4, each director, officer, employee and agent of a Dealer Manager or Holder and each Person, if any, who controls a Dealer Manager or Holder within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as such Dealer Manager or Holder, and each director, officer, employee and agent of the Company, and each Person, if any, who controls the Company within the meaning of Section 15 of the 1933 Act or Section 20 of the 1934 Act shall have the same rights to contribution as the Company. 5. Miscellaneous. 5.1. Rule 144 and Rule 144A. For so long as the Company is subject to the reporting requirements of Section 13 or 15 of the 1934 Act, the Company covenants that it will file the reports required to be filed by it under the 1933 Act and Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the 1934 Act and the rules and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder. If the Company ceases to be so required to file such reports, the Company covenants that it will upon the request of any Holder of 144A Notes (a) make publicly available such information as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, (b) deliver such information to a prospective purchaser as is necessary to permit sales pursuant to Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, and (c) take such further action that is reasonable in the circumstances, in each case, to the extent required from time to time to enable such Holder to sell its 144A Notes without registration under the 1933 Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (i) Rule 144 under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, (ii) Rule 144A under the 1933 Act, as such Rule may be amended from time to time, or (iii) any similar rules or regulations hereafter adopted by the SEC. 14
5.2. No Inconsistent Agreements. The Company has not entered into and the Company will not after the date of this Agreement enter into any agreement which is inconsistent with the rights granted to the Holders of 144A Notes in this Agreement or otherwise conflicts with the provisions hereof. The rights granted to the Holders hereunder do not and will not for the term of this Agreement in any way conflict with the rights granted to the holders of the Company's other issued and outstanding securities under any such agreements. 5.3. Amendments and Waivers. The provisions of this Agreement, including the provisions of this sentence, may not be amended, modified or supplemented, and waivers or consents to departures from the provisions hereof may not be given unless the Company has obtained the written consent of Holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the outstanding 144A Notes affected by such amendment, modification, supplement, waiver or departure. 5.4. Notices. All notices and other communications provided for or permitted hereunder shall be made in writing by hand delivery, registered first-class mail, facsimile, or any courier guaranteeing overnight delivery (a) if to a Holder, at the most current address given by such Holder to the Company by means of a notice given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4, which address initially is the address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement with respect to the Dealer Managers; and (b) if to the Company, initially at the Company's address set forth in the Dealer Manager Agreement, and thereafter at such other address of which notice is given in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5.4. All such notices and communications shall be deemed to have been duly given: at the time delivered by hand, if personally delivered; two business days after being deposited in the mail, postage prepaid, if mailed; when receipt is acknowledged, if faxed; and on the next business day if timely delivered to an air courier guaranteeing overnight delivery. Copies of all such notices, demands, or other communications shall be concurrently delivered by the person giving the same to the Trustee under the Indenture, at the address specified in such Indenture. 5.5. Successor and Assigns. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors, assigns and transferees of each of the parties, including, without limitation and without the need for an express assignment, subsequent Holders; provided that nothing herein shall be deemed to permit any assignment, transfer or other disposition of 144A Notes in violation of the terms of the Dealer Manager Agreement or the Indenture. If any transferee of any Holder shall acquire 144A Notes, in any manner, whether by operation of law or otherwise, such 144A Notes shall be held subject to all of the terms of this Agreement, and by taking and holding such 144A Notes such person shall be conclusively deemed to have agreed to be bound by and to perform all of the terms and provisions of this Agreement, including the restrictions on resale set forth in this Agreement and, if applicable, the Dealer Manager Agreement, and such person shall be entitled to receive the benefits hereof. 5.6. Holders Bound. Each Holder of 144A Notes will be deemed to have agreed to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement whether or not such Holder has signed this Agreement. 5.7. Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which 15
when so executed shall be deemed to be an original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 5.8. Headings. The headings in this Agreement are for convenience of reference only and shall not limit or otherwise affect the meaning hereof. 5.9. GOVERNING LAW. THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK WITHOUT REGARD TO THE PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS THEREOF. 5.10. Severability. In the event that any one or more of the provisions contained herein, or the application thereof in any circumstance, is held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of any such provision in every other respect and of the remaining provisions contained herein shall not be affected or impaired thereby. 16
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the date first written above. MONSANTO COMPANY By: ---------------------------------------- Name: Robert A. Paley Title: Vice President and Treasurer Confirmed and accepted as of the date first above written: BY: BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES LLC By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: ABN AMRO INCORPORATED By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: CALYON SECURITIES (USA) INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title:
BY: KBC FINANCIAL PRODUCTS USA INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: CITIGROUP GLOBAL MARKETS INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: RABO SECURITIES USA, INC. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: SPP CAPITAL PARTNERS, LLC By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title: BY: THE WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP, L.P. By: --------------------------------------------- Name: Title:


