FILE:MON/MON-8K-20060104081443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 4, 2006, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2006 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2005. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
     Exhibit 99     Press Release, dated January 4, 2006, issued by Monsanto Company
     
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
SEEDS AND TRAITS GROWTH, ROUNDUP BUSINESS DRIVE RECORD FIRST-QUARTER   SALES FOR MONSANTO COMPANY
Early indicators from first quarter also signal strong start to U.S. seed and trait sales
St. Louis  Jan. 4, 2006
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The contribution of our seeds and traits business continues to grow, as more and more farmers throughout the world recognize the value and convenience of our products for their farms. Stronger adoption of our traits in Australia, coupled with stronger and earlier sales of Roundup herbicides and the addition of the Seminis business, helped make this a record first quarter for our company.
"The first quarter, while historically a smaller part of our overall financial results for the year, represents a positive starting point for our business this fiscal year. And, with the most significant part of our annual business cycle still to come, we believe we are on track for another strong fiscal year for our business."
The planting season is well under way in the Southern Hemisphere and is nearing the mid-season point. In Brazil, the continued strengthening of the Real to the U.S. dollar has caused liquidity concerns for farmers who pay for inputs with local currency but receive grain payments at harvest in U.S. dollars. Farmers in southern Brazil are also faced with an economic pinch after two years of drought. In Australia, total cotton acres planted in the country remained relatively flat year-over-year.
Market Conditions
The winter months in the Northern Hemisphere agricultural markets provide farmers with an opportunity to review their input costs for the 2006 season  including new seed, trait and chemistry offerings. In November and December, farmers worked with their regional sales outlets to secure their orders for the 2006 season. Monsanto currently expects that corn and soybean acres will remain relatively flat in the United States this season.
While the first quarter has historically been a smaller contributor to overall company performance, Monsanto is off to a good start for its fiscal year 2006.
Operations Update
The company reported record net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, which were 31 percent higher than the same period in fiscal year 2005. Key drivers for the quarter were stronger adoption of the company's stacked cotton traits in Australia; stronger-than-expected purchases of Roundup herbicides in the United States, Europe and Argentina; and increased U.S. corn trait revenues. Sales in the quarter also included revenue from the Seminis vegetable and fruit seed business, which was not part of the company's operations during the first quarter last year.
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, Monsanto recorded net income of $59 million compared with a net loss of $40 million for the same period last year. Earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, were 22 cents a share.
For first-quarter fiscal year 2006, net cash provided by operations was $773 million, compared with $769 million in first-quarter 2005. Net cash required by investing activities was $135 million for first-quarter 2006, compared to net cash provided of $1 million for the same 2005 quarter. As a result, free cash flow was $638 million for the first quarter fiscal year 2006, compared with $770 million in the same quarter in fiscal year 2005. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) The decrease in the quarter was related to lower proceeds from maturities of short-term securities, which were partially offset by lower spending on acquisitions compared with those expenditures in the same period in fiscal year 2005.
Cash Flow
 
The second and third quarters of fiscal year 2006 are expected to be the primary drivers for the company's fiscal year 2006 EPS results. These quarters reflect both the relative size of the company's U.S. business and the importance of its seeds-and-traits business to Monsanto's earnings.
Outlook
Monsanto confirmed that its full-year 2006 EPS guidance will be toward the upper end of its previously announced range of $2.35 to $2.50. The company also confirmed that its guidance for free cash flow in fiscal year 2006 remains in the range of $825 million to $900 million. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $656 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 40 percent higher than the same period last year. Key drivers for the quarter were:
 
 
During the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, the company realized increased U.S. corn trait revenue. Early indications from the company's U.S. seeds and traits business are promising and suggest continued growth in the upcoming season.
In Australia, cotton farmers increased their plantings of the company's stacked cotton trait offering, Bollgard II with Roundup Ready cotton, leading to record trait adoption in this market.
Sales from the Seminis vegetable and fruit seed business also contributed to increased sales for the quarter. Seminis sales, which were not part of the company's operations in the first quarter last year, were higher compared with pro forma sales for the same period last year.
 
As expected, the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 also included the continuing effect of an inventory step-up related to the Seminis acquisition which reduced gross profit for the segment by $11 million in the quarter.
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, residential lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and the company's animal agricultural businesses.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $749 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 24 percent higher compared with the same period last year. The primary contributor to the segment's growth in the quarter was stronger-than-expected sales of Roundup herbicides in the United States, Europe and Argentina.
For the first quarter, the company's Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicide sales were $549 million, or 26 percent higher than the same period last year. In Europe, the increase was related to earlier timing of demand as farmers opted for early purchases of Roundup herbicides in anticipation of the implementation of an ecology tax in November.
The company's cost of goods sold for the quarter was also negatively affected by higher costs within the Agricultural Productivity segment associated with the 2005 U.S. hurricane season and the continuing effect of inventory management within the dairy business.
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. central time (9 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of projects within the company's R&D pipeline. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Webcast Information
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
 
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Bollgard II, Roundup and Roundup Ready are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operations and investing activities, as reflected in Monsanto's Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the projected free cash flow guidance provided under the caption "Outlook," Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:


