FILE:MON/MON-8K-20060629082546.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 29, 2006
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On June 29, 2006, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2006 financial and operating results for the period ended May 31, 2006. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c) Exhibits
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 29, 2006
Table of Contents

 
Exhibit 99
SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESS DRIVES RECORD THIRD-QUARTER SALES
U.S. corn seed and traits business sees continued market share gains, broader adoption of stacked corn traits
St. Louis  June 29, 2006
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Nothing says growth like raising the ceiling on what is possible, and that is exactly the trend we've seen in the performance of our seeds and traits business up to this point in the year. This performance sets us on the future trajectory for growth, and enhances our leadership position through the end of the decade."
The 2006 crop season is well under way throughout the Northern Hemisphere. In the United States, cool temperatures in early spring provided open planting windows for the majority of the country's corn, cotton and soybean farmers. Currently, reports from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) note that the majority of corn, cotton and soybean varieties have emerged. However, the lack of consistent moisture in May has raised concerns for a dry season in the U.S. corn- and soybean-growing region. The USDA currently estimates that corn was planted on 78 million acres, soybeans were planted on nearly 77 million acres and cotton was planted on more than 14 million acres. Throughout Europe and Asia, farmers' fields are quickly approaching the mid-season point in this year's crop cycle. In India, cotton farmers are working to plant their cotton fields on the heels of this year's monsoon season.
Market Conditions
In the Southern Hemisphere, the harvest season is mostly complete. By late May, farmers in Argentina were wrapping up this year's harvest of corn and soybeans, both of which benefited from late-season rains. Brazil soybean farmers completed their main harvest cycle in late April.
Monsanto reported record net sales of $2.3 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, which were 15 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2005. Key drivers for the quarter were increased seeds and traits revenues in the United States, primarily driven by higher revenues from the company's soybean business, and greater farmer adoption of the company's corn products. Sales from the company's Seminis vegetable and fruit seed business, which was acquired in the third quarter of fiscal year 2005, also contributed to the increase in the quarter. Results also benefited from higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States.
Operations Update
The company reported record net sales of $5.95 billion through the company's first three quarters of fiscal year 2006, which were 19 percent higher compared with sales in the first nine months of last year. Key contributors to the company's growth included higher U.S. corn seed and traits revenues, and stronger purchases of Roundup herbicides in the United States and Argentina. Sales from the Seminis business also contributed to the increase in the first nine months.
Monsanto reported net income of $334 million in the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, which was significantly higher than the same period last year. The increase in net income for the third quarter related to higher revenue from the company's U.S. seeds and traits business, as well as a 2005 write-off of in-process R&D related to the Seminis and Stoneville acquisitions. Net income of $833 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2006 was also significantly higher than the same period last year.
Earnings per share (EPS), both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, was $1.21 for the third quarter and $3.02 for the first nine months of the 2006 fiscal year.
 
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $184 million, compared with $533 million in the same period in 2005. Net cash required by investing activities was $408 million for the first nine months of 2006, compared with net cash required of $1.4 billion for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was a use of $224 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2006, compared with a use of $838 million in the same period in fiscal year 2005. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) Free cash flow in the first three quarters, when compared with free cash in the same period last year, reflected lower spending on acquisitions which was partially offset by increased working capital requirements, planned higher spending on capital expenditures as well as lower proceeds from short-term securities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $294 million for the first nine months of 2006, compared with net cash provided of $268 million for the same period last year.
Cash Flow
Monsanto confirmed that its full-year 2006 EPS guidance on an ongoing basis will be in the range of $2.50 to $2.55. The company now expects that its full-year 2006 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis will be in the range of $2.41 to 2.48, following a one-time tax charge associated with repatriated earnings. The company expects to incur the charge in the fourth-quarter of fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of on-going EPS, see note 1.) The company also confirmed that its guidance for free cash flow in fiscal year 2006 remains in the range of $825 million to $900 million, with net cash provided by operating activities in the range of $1.375 billion to $1.450 billion, and net cash required by investing activities of approximately $550 million. EPS guidance does not reflect the company's announced two-for-one stock split. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Outlook
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $1.3 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 26 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, the company realized increased U.S. seeds and traits revenue. Third-quarter results benefited from increased sales of the company's U.S. soybean seed and traits business, as well as higher sales of Monsanto's corn seed products. The strong adoption of the company's corn seed and traits business in the United States contributed to a fifth consecutive year of market share gains for Monsanto in the U.S. corn seed market.
Sales from the Seminis business also contributed to the favorable results in the third quarter. Sales reported in the third quarter of the 2005 fiscal year were based only on Seminis sales from March 23, 2005, the date Monsanto acquired this business, to May 31, 2005, the close of the company's third quarter of fiscal year 2005.
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first nine months of the 2006 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. Segment sales through the first three quarters were $3.5 billion, or 29 percent higher when compared with segment sales from the same period in fiscal year 2005. The key drivers for growth in the third quarter were also the primary contributors to growth in the first three quarters of the fiscal year.
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $1 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 3 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States contributed to the increase in the third quarter.
Segment sales through the first three quarters were $2.5 billion or 6 percent higher than segment sales in the same period of fiscal year 2005. Increased volumes and prices of Roundup herbicides in the United States contributed to growth through the first nine months of the fiscal year. Segment sales in the first nine months also benefited from increased sales from the company's selective chemistry and dairy businesses.
Gross profit for the segment in the third quarter was affected by higher raw material and energy costs for production of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides, as well as higher operating costs in Brazil associated with a stronger Real.
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. central time (9 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Webcast Information
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto also published a preliminary report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2006. This report is available on Monsanto's web site.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at www.monsanto.com and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need
 
to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Roundup is a registered trademark owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to "Roundup herbicides" in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 
 
 
 
 


