FILE:MON/MON-8K-20061011082141.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 11, 2006, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2006 financial and operating results for the period ended August 31, 2006. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 11, 2006
Table of Contents

 
EXHIBIT 99
AG PRODUCTIVITY BUSINESS CONTRIBUTES TO STRONG FOURTH QUARTER;
SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESS DRIVES RECORD SALES IN FISCAL YEAR 2006
St. Louis  Oct. 11, 2006
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The 2006 fiscal year was an outstanding year for Monsanto. We realized record sales, expanded growth in our corn seed business and saw continued adoption of our trait technologies. Our results have created a strong foundation for continued earnings growth for the company leading into the next decade."
The 2006 harvest season is well under way throughout the Northern Hemisphere. Based on late-season estimates by the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), producers could realize near-record production levels in corn, cotton and soybeans, as late-season rains helped improve crop conditions in parts of the Corn, Cotton and Soybean belts. The USDA currently estimates that this year's corn crop is 29 percent harvested, the cotton crop is 32 percent harvested, and the soybean crop is 47 percent harvested.
Market Conditions
In South America, farmers are gearing up for planting and during the next several months will be seeding their fields with their crops. Early-season estimates suggest that acres planted to corn in Argentina may rise slightly year over year, while acres planted to soybeans in Brazil may be reduced somewhat.
Monsanto reported net sales of $1.4 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, which were 9 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2005. The fourth-quarter results were primarily driven by higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States as well as higher sales of the company's corn products. Results in the quarter were partially offset by lower U.S. soybean trait revenues as the company's seed and trait licensees reported a higher percentage of their annual sales in the first nine months of 2006 compared with sales in the same period in 2005.
Operations Update
The company reported record net sales of $7.3 billion in fiscal year 2006, which were 17 percent higher than sales in fiscal year 2005. Key contributors to the company's growth in the year included higher U.S. corn seed and traits revenues, and higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States. Sales from the Seminis business also contributed to the favorable results for the year, as the company realized the first full year of sales from this business.
Monsanto reported a net loss of $144 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, compared with a reported net loss of $125 million in the same period last year. The decrease in the fourth quarter income related primarily to lower sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment. For fiscal year 2006, the company reported net income of $689 million which was significantly higher than net income for fiscal year 2005. The increase in fiscal year 2006 related primarily to higher revenue from the company's U.S. seeds-and-traits business. In comparison, net income in fiscal year 2005 also had a write-off related to in-process R&D associated with acquired seed companies.
Loss per share for the fourth quarter was $(0.27) on an as-reported basis, and was $(0.21) on an ongoing basis. Earnings per share (EPS) for fiscal year 2006 were $1.25 on an as-reported basis, and $1.31 on an ongoing basis. Monsanto's EPS data for all periods has been adjusted to reflect the company's two-for-one stock split which was paid on July 28, 2006. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1. See note 2 for a discussion of ongoing EPS.)
 
In fiscal year 2006, Monsanto generated free cash flow which topped $1 billion. During the year, Monsanto's net cash provided by operating activities decreased 4 percent to $1.7 billion, while the company's net cash required by investing activities was $625 million for the fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.) Free cash flow in fiscal year 2006 reflected higher net income and lower spending on acquisitions when compared with fiscal year 2005. Net cash required by financing activities was $117 million for fiscal year 2006, compared with net cash required of $582 million for fiscal year 2005. The change in net cash required by financing activities is primarily because of higher spending on acquisitions in 2005.
Cash Flow
Monsanto announced that its full-year 2007 EPS guidance, both on a reported and ongoing basis, is expected to be in the range of $1.50 to $1.57. The company's 2007 EPS guidance reflects a projected growth rate of up to 15 percent to 20 percent from the fiscal year 2006 EPS ongoing base of $1.31 per share. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1. See note 2 for a discussion of ongoing EPS.)
Outlook
The company also confirmed guidance for free cash flow for fiscal year 2007 will be in the range of $875 million to $950 million. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $500 million for fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
Monsanto also noted that it expects that its target for SG&A expense as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2007 will be in the range of 21 to 21.5 percent. The company also confirmed that its R&D expenses as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2007 are expected to be approximately 10 percent.
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $532 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 2 percent lower than sales in the same period last year.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, the company realized higher sales of corn seeds in the United States and higher sales from the Seminis business. Results in the quarter were offset by lower soybean trait revenues as the company's seed-and-trait licensees reported a greater percentage of their annual sales in the first nine months of fiscal year 2006 when compared with sales in fiscal year 2005.
Sales for the segment were $4 billion for fiscal year 2006, or 24 percent higher when compared with sales in fiscal year 2005. Higher revenues from the company's U.S. corn seed-and-traits business was a key driver for growth in the year. Strong adoption of the company's corn seed and traits in the United States contributed to a more than 3-point increase in market share for Monsanto in the U.S. corn seed market. This marks the fifth consecutive year of market share gains for Monsanto in the U.S. market.
Sales from acquired businesses also contributed to the full-year results. This is the first year that Monsanto has recorded a full year of sales from its Seminis and Stoneville businesses, both of which were acquired in 2005.
 
Inventory step-up charged to cost of goods sold for the Seminis business totaled $15 million in the fourth quarter and $50 million for the 2006 fiscal year, compared with $12 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005 and $19 million for the 2005 fiscal year.
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto published its year-end report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2006. This report is available on Monsanto's web site at: .
http://www.monsanto.com/monsanto/layout/investor/company/crop.asp
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $859 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 18 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States contributed to the increase in the fourth quarter.
Segment sales were $3.3 billion for fiscal year 2006 or 9 percent higher than segment sales compared with sales in fiscal year 2005. Increased volumes and prices of Roundup herbicides in the United States contributed to growth for the full year. Segment sales also benefited from increased sales from the company's selective chemistry and dairy businesses.
Despite higher raw material costs for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides associated with higher energy costs, and increased costs in Brazil as result of a strengthening Real, gross profit for the segment remained in line with the company's guidance.
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. central time (9 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include
Webcast Information
 
a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions, including Delta and Pine Land Company; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Roundup is a registered trademark owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to "Roundup herbicides" in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 
 
 
 
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. The reconciliation of EPS to ongoing EPS for the fourth quarter and twelve months ended Aug. 31, 2006 and 2005, is included on page 1 of this release.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2007 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:


