FILE:MON/MON-8K-20060405082425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
          On April 5, 2006, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2006 financial and operating results for the period ended February 28, 2006.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
          The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
          We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC").  This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(c)           Exhibits
          The following exhibit is filed herewith:
          Exhibit 99     Press Release, dated April 5, 2006, issued by Monsanto Company
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 5, 2006

Exhibit 99
SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESS DRIVES RECORD SECOND-QUARTER AND FIRST-HALF SALES FOR MONSANTO COMPANY
Corn seed and traits meeting higher targets for market penetration
St. Louis  April 5, 2006
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Our business performed solidly in the first half of this fiscal year. Our second-quarter results, which serve as a key contributor to our overall fiscal year performance, were strong based on greater adoption of our corn seed and traits, and the addition of our Seminis business. These businesses are contributing nicely to our overall portfolio and should help us build positive momentum as we head into the crop season in the United States  the largest market for our business.
"We continue to see strong adoption of our corn seed and traits offerings, including our stacked-trait products which allow farmers to get more benefits out of a single seed. This adoption, in combination with our breeding efforts, has our business poised for market share gains in the U.S. corn seed market for a fifth consecutive year."
Market Conditions
Farmers in the United States are gearing up for the 2006 crop season, both taking delivery of their crop inputs as well as evaluating their field conditions and planting windows. Over the next two months, U.S. farmers are slated to plant their corn hybrids, as well as their soybean and cotton varieties. Pre-season estimates from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) suggest that corn will be planted on 78 million acres, soybeans will be planted on more than 76 million acres and cotton will be planted on more than 14 million acres. Ultimately, the number of acres may change based on weather conditions and other variables related to planting.
In the Southern Hemisphere, the harvest season is under way. In Brazil, a consensus of industry sources note that soybean farmers are nearly halfway through their harvest by the first week of April. Soybean farmers in Argentina have also started harvesting beans, and estimates suggest that they will reach the mid-point by early May. Following last season's drought in parts of South America, the late-season rains are expected to have provided some benefit to this year's production.
Operations Update
Monsanto reported record net sales of $2.2 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, which were 15 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2005. Key drivers for the quarter were increased corn seed and traits revenues in the United States, as well as the addition of revenues from the Seminis vegetable and fruit seed business, which was not part of the company's operations during this period last year. Increased sales in the current quarter were partially offset by lower sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the Europe-Africa and Asia-Pacific regions.
Record net sales in the company's first and second quarters of fiscal year 2006 resulted in record year-to-date sales, which were 21 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Key contributors to the company's organic growth included higher U.S. corn seed and traits revenues and stronger purchases of Roundup herbicides in the United States and Argentina. The addition of revenue from the Seminis business was also a key driver for the increase in the first six months.
Monsanto recorded higher net income for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, which was 18 percent higher than net income in the same period last year. Higher revenue from the company's U.S. corn seed and traits business contributed to the net income increase in the second quarter. Net income for the first six months of fiscal year 2006 was 50 percent higher than net income in the same period last year.
Earnings per share (EPS), both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, was $1.60 for the second quarter and $1.82 for the first six months of the 2006 fiscal year.
Cash Flow
For the first half of fiscal year 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $331 million, compared with $453 million in the same period in 2005. Net cash required by investing activities was $466 million for the first six months of 2006, compared with net cash provided of $47 million for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was $(135) million for the first half of fiscal year 2006, compared with $500 million in the same period in fiscal year 2005. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) The first-half decrease, when compared with free cash in the same period last year, was related to lower proceeds from maturities of short-term securities, lower accrued liabilities because of timing of tax payments, higher spending on capital and investments as well as greater receivables from increased seed and traits revenue. Net cash provided by financing activities was $191 million for the first six months of 2006, compared with net cash required of $441 million for the same period last year.
Outlook
Monsanto confirmed that its full-year 2006 EPS guidance, both on a reported and ongoing basis, will be toward the upper end of its previously announced range of $2.35 to $2.50. The company also confirmed that its guidance for free cash flow in fiscal year 2006 remains in the range of $825 million to $900 million. The company confirmed that in fiscal year 2006 it expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.375 billion to $1.450 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $550 million. Free cash flow guidance excludes cash that may be used for a rights offering in connection with the bankruptcy proceedings of Solutia, Inc. Monsanto's current guidance also does not reflect any equity in Solutia, Inc., that the company may receive as a result of the bankruptcy process. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $1.5 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 27 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, the company realized increased U.S. corn seed and traits revenue. The company expects continued growth in the upcoming planting season from its U.S. corn seed and traits business, which is poised to gain market share in the U.S. corn seed market for a fifth consecutive year.
The addition of sales from the Seminis business also contributed to increased sales in the second quarter. Seminis sales, which were not part of the company's operations in the second quarter last year, were lower compared with pro forma sales for the same period last year. First-half sales from Seminis were flat when compared with pro forma sales for the first six months of fiscal year 2005.
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first six months of the 2006 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $2.2 billion, or 31 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2005. The key drivers for growth in the second quarter were also the primary contributors to growth in the first-half of the fiscal year.
As expected, the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 also included the continuing effect of an inventory step-up related to the Seminis acquisition of $12 million for the quarter, and $23 million for the first half of the 2006 fiscal year.
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $695 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006, or 4 percent lower compared with sales in the same period last year. Sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides were down modestly in the Europe-Africa and Asia-Pacific regions during the quarter; however, this decrease was partially offset by higher sales of Roundup herbicide in the United States.
Sales for the segment were higher for the first six months of the 2006 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $1.4 billion or 8 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2005. Improved sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States and Argentina were key drivers for growth in the first half of the fiscal year. Segment sales in the first half also benefited from increased sales from the company's selective chemistry and dairy businesses.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8 a.m. central time (9 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of the company's U.S. business operations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at www.monsanto.com and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see www.monsanto.com.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's filings with the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Roundup is a registered trademark owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 


