FILE:MON/MON-8K-20070104081550.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Jan. 4, 2007
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_________________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): Jan. 4, 2007
 
MONSANTO COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
800 North Lindbergh Boulevard
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
(
Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(314) 694-1000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
_________________________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On Jan. 4, 2007, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter 2007 financial and operating results for the period ended Nov. 30, 2006. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
_________________________________
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: Jan. 4, 2007
MONSANTO COMPANY
 
 
By:
        /s/ Jennifer L. Woods    
 
 
3
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
GROWTH IN U.S. CORN SEED AND TRAITS BUSINESS, ROUNDUP BUSINESS DRIVE FIRST-QUARTER SALES FOR MONSANTO COMPANY
First-Quarter Earnings Per Share Benefits from Lower Tax Rate, Company Reiterates Full-Year Free Cash Flow and EPS Guidance
Company Sets New Time for Conference Call, Call Scheduled for 9:30 a.m. (ET)/8:30 a.m. (CT)
 
St. Louis  Jan. 4, 2007
 
 
- more -
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"We remain focused on delivering the next generation of innovation to the farm by offering our farmer customers meaningful seed and trait technologies. Our results in the first quarter are testament to this commitment and the value our products are providing farmers. Backed by the solid performance of our seeds and traits business including strong early demand for our triple-trait corn technology in the United States, we believe our business is on track for another strong year."
 
Market Conditions
The winter months in the Northern Hemisphere agricultural markets provide farmers with an opportunity to review their input costs for the 2007 season  including new seed, trait and chemistry offerings. Strong early-season order patterns in the United States for the company's corn business are reinforcing growth trends in the company's branded seed business and adoption of trait technologies, particularly its triple-trait corn technology. Monsanto currently expects that total soybean acres under production may decrease slightly during this growing season as farmers increase the number of acres planted to corn in the United States. However, the company noted that final planted acres will be based on a number of factors leading up to planting, including commodity prices and weather.
 
The planting season is well under way in the Southern Hemisphere. In Australia, drought conditions have strained the productivity of cotton farmers within the country and reduced the number of acres devoted to cotton production by half. In Brazil, recent estimates suggest that total soybean production in the country could be in the range of 50 million acres.
 
Operations Update
The company reported net sales for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, which were 10 percent higher than those in the first quarter of fiscal year 2006. Key drivers for the quarter were stronger adoption of the company's corn seed and trait technologies in the United States, and greater volumes of Roundup herbicides in the United States and Brazil.
 
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, Monsanto recorded net income of $90 million compared with net income of $59 million for the same period last year. Earnings per share (EPS)
for the quarter, both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, were 16 cents a share. The company's first quarter results reflected a lower tax rate in the quarter primarily stemming from the conclusion of an ex-U.S. audit. Monsanto believes that the company's full-year tax rate will be in the 30 percent range.
 
Cash Flow
For first-quarter fiscal year 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $600 million, compared with $773 million in the first-quarter of fiscal year 2006. Net cash required by investing activities was $67 million for the first-quarter of fiscal year 2007, compared to net cash required of $135 million for the same fiscal year 2006 quarter. As a result, free cash flow was $533 million for the first-quarter fiscal year 2007, compared with $638 million for the same quarter in fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.) The decrease in the quarter related primarily to changes in inventories and accrued liabilities which affected operating cash during the quarter. Net cash required by financing activities was $156 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, compared with net cash required of $157 million for the same period in fiscal year 2006.
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
Outlook
The second and third quarters of fiscal year 2007 are expected to be the primary drivers for the company's fiscal year 2007 EPS results. These quarters reflect both the relative size of the company's U.S. business and the importance of its seeds-and-traits business to Monsanto's earnings.
 
Monsanto now expects that its full-year 2007 EPS guidance could be toward the upper end of its previously announced range of $1.50 to $1.57, both on a reported and ongoing basis. The company continues to expect free cash flow for fiscal year 2007 to be in the range of $875 million to $950 million. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.375 billion to $1.450 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $500 million for fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
 
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $680 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, or higher than the same period last year.
 
Results in the quarter benefited from increased sales of the company's corn seed and traits business, which were 35 percent higher when compared with sales in the same period last year. During the quarter, Monsanto's U.S. corn business realized strong early orders for the company's corn products  including its higher margin triple-trait technology which offers farmers both above-the-ground and below-the-ground insect protection, as well as weed control flexibility. Monsanto reiterated that the company's DEKALB and Asgrow national corn brands could have more than 35 percent of all of its seed sold in a triple stack during the 2007 growing season.
 
Sales in the quarter were partially offset by lower volume of the company's cotton traits in Australia as drought conditions there halved the total cotton production area. Results in the quarter were also partially offset by lower revenues from the Seminis vegetable and fruit seed business, primarily a function of the timing of seed sales in 2007 when compared with 2006 sales.
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, residential lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and the company's animal agricultural businesses.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $859 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 15 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. The primary contributor to the segment's growth in the quarter was stronger volumes of Roundup herbicides in the United States and Brazil.
 
Gross profit for the segment in the first quarter was slightly higher when compared with gross profit in the same period last year. As a percent of sales, gross profit for the segment was slightly less, as the company experienced higher raw material and energy costs for production of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides.
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of projects within the company's R&D pipeline. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
 
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at
www.monsanto.com
and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
 
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see
www.monsanto.com
.
 
-oOo-
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions, including Delta and Pine Land Company; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: DEKALB, Asgrow and Roundup are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Unaudited
 
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 7 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 8 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
-more-
 
 
 
- 9 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. The reconciliation of EPS to ongoing EPS for the three months ended Nov. 30, 2006 and 2005, is included on page 1 of this release.
                                                
 
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2007 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
 
 
 
 
-more-
 
 


