FILE:MON/MON-8K-20070920172209.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
     
ITEM 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 17, 2007, Monsanto Company received a letter from Sharon R. Long, Ph.D., in which Dr. Long tendered her resignation as a member of the Board of Directors of Monsanto Company, which resignation shall become effective October 31, 2007. Dr. Long has not advised the company of any disagreement with the company on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices. A press release regarding this matter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01     Financial Statement and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 20, 2007
 

 
EXHIBIT 99
MONSANTO ANNOUNCES DEPARTURE OF SHARON R. LONG, PH.D. FROM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
     ST. LOUIS (Sept. 20, 2007)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today that Sharon R. Long, Ph.D., will resign from the company's Board of Directors effective October 31, 2007.
     "We thank Dr. Long for her valuable contributions to the board and company," said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Monsanto. "Her scientific expertise and perspective have provided insight to our board and management team. On behalf of the entire board, we extend our best wishes to Sharon, as a valued colleague, as she enters a new stage in her distinguished career."
     Dr. Long recently completed her term as Dean of the School of Humanities and Sciences at Stanford University and will take a year-long sabbatical leave to focus on educational opportunities with full-time research and study. "I am truly proud of Monsanto's achievements and growth during my service as a director and look forward to the company's continued success," said Dr. Long. Earlier this year, Dr. Long also was elected to the governing Council of the National Academy of Sciences and undertook the co-chairmanship of a medical education project under the aegis of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute and American Association of Medical Colleges.
     Dr. Long was first elected as a director of Monsanto in February 2002. During her tenure on the board, she served as chairperson of the Science and Technology Committee and as a member of the Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
     Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information, please visit the company's web site at .
www.monsanto.com


