FILE:MON/MON-8K-20071010090131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On October 10, 2007, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and fiscal year 2007 financial and operating results for the period ended August 31, 2007. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 10, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
St. Louis  Oct. 10, 2007
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"This year was a benchmark year for our company, as more and more farmers throughout the world rewarded us for the value our products are delivering to their farms. We realized record sales for a fourth consecutive year, made several strategic acquisitions and rewarded shareowners with our largest dividend increase in our history. Our results this year have created a strong foundation for continued earnings growth for our business leading into 2008 and well into the next decade."
The 2007 harvest season is well under way throughout the Northern Hemisphere. U.S. corn farmers are harvesting what the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) now estimates to be the largest corn crop ever produced, estimated at approximately 13 billion bushels. The USDA currently estimates that this year's corn crop is 42 percent harvested, the cotton crop is 30 percent harvested, and the soybean crop is 50 percent harvested.
Market Conditions
In South America, farmers are gearing up for planting and during the next several months will be seeding their fields with their crops. Early-season estimates suggest that soybean production in Brazil is expected to remain flat year over year. Meanwhile, farmers in both Brazil and Argentina are expected to increase their plantings of corn as they work to support the growing demand on Latin America export needs.
Monsanto reported record net sales of $1.6 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, which were 13 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2006. Key drivers for the quarter were a strong conclusion to the corn seed and traits season in the United States as well as increased corn seed revenues in Argentina and Brazil. Results in the quarter also included results from our Delta and Pine Land (D&PL) cotton business, which included a $186 million in-process research and development (IPR&D) charge.
Operations Update
Monsanto saw record sales of $8.6 billion in the company's fiscal year 2007. The year-to-date sales were 17 percent higher than sales in fiscal year 2006. Key contributors to the company's growth included higher worldwide corn seed and traits revenues, as well as increased sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally. These results were partially offset by lower revenues from the company's soybean seed and trait business, as farmers reduced the number of acres planted in favor of corn. Results also reflected lower cotton trait revenues, as the total number of acres planted in Australia and the United States were reduced compared with the prior year.
Monsanto reported a net loss of $210 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, compared with a reported net loss of $144 million in the same period last year. The increase in the fourth quarter loss related primarily to the D&PL IPR&D charge. For fiscal year 2007, Monsanto reported net income of $993 million which was significantly higher than net income of $689 million in fiscal year 2006.
Loss per share for the fourth quarter was $(0.39) on an as-reported basis, and was $(0.18) on an ongoing basis. Earnings per share (EPS) for fiscal year 2007 were $1.79 on an as-reported basis, and $2.00 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1. See note 2 for a discussion of ongoing EPS.) As reported EPS results for both periods reflect the effect of discontinued operations for the Stoneville and NexGen cottonseed businesses, as well as the D&PL IPR&D charge.
 
The company's results also reflect a lower tax rate for continuing operations in 2007 primarily resulting from the resolution of several tax audits and the company's ability to use net operating loss carry forwards in Argentina. These positive factors were partially offset by approximately 4 points attributable to non-deductible IPR&D charges associated with the company's recent acquisition of D&PL.
For fiscal year 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 billion, compared with $1.7 billion in the same period in 2006. Net cash required by investing activities was $1.9 billion in fiscal year 2007, compared with net cash required of $625 million for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was a use of $57 million for fiscal year 2007, compared with a source of $1 billion in fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.) Free cash flow in fiscal year 2007 reflected higher net income and higher spending on acquisitions when compared with fiscal year 2006. Net cash required by financing activities was $583 million for fiscal year 2007, compared with net cash required of $117 million last year.
Cash Flow
Monsanto said that its full-year 2008 EPS guidance, both on a reported and ongoing basis, is in the range of $2.20 to $2.40. The company's 2008 EPS guidance reflects a projected growth rate of 10 percent to 20 percent from the fiscal year 2007 EPS ongoing base of $2.00 per share.
Outlook
The company also confirmed guidance for free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 will be in the range of $800 million to $900 million. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.75 billion to $1.85 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $950 million for fiscal year 2008. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
Monsanto also noted that it expects that SG&A expense as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2008 will be in the range of 20 percent to 21 percent. The company also confirmed that its R&D expenses as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2008 are expected to be approximately 10 percent.
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto published its year-end report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2007. This report is available on Monsanto's web site at:
Trait Acreage Report
www.monsanto.com/monsanto/layout/investor/company/crop.asp.
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $742 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 40 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company realized increased revenues from its corn seed and traits business. The key factors for growth included a successful conclusion to the seed and traits season in the United States and strong farmer demand for the company's corn seed products in Argentina and Brazil.
Monsanto realized record segment sales of $5 billion for fiscal year 2007 which were 25 percent higher compared with sales last fiscal year. The key driver for growth in the fiscal year was higher global corn seed and traits revenue. Strong customer demand for the company's branded corn seed products contributed to a sixth consecutive year of market share gains in the U.S. corn seed market for our DEKALB brand. This year the brand gained 4 percentage points.
The increased corn sales for the fiscal year 2007 were partially offset by lower sales of soybean seeds and traits in the United States, as well as lower sales of cotton traits in Australia and the United States.
 
Lower sales in the United States reflect farmer planting trends, while the lower sales in Australia were a result of drought conditions.
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $831 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 3 percent lower compared with sales in the same period last year. Results in the quarter reflect lower sales from the company's selective chemistry business.
Sales for the segment were $3.6 billion for fiscal year 2007, or 9 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Segment year-to-date sales benefited from higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally primarily in the United States, Brazil, the Europe-Africa region, Asia, Canada and Argentina. Segment sales were partially offset by lower sales from the company's selective chemistry and dairy businesses.
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Webcast Information
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at . Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com/investor/
 
Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON) is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: DEKALB and Roundup are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 
 
 
 
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. The reconciliation of EPS to ongoing EPS for the fourth quarter and twelve months ended Aug. 31, 2007 and 2006, is included on page 1 of this release.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2008 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:


