FILE:MON/MON-8K-20070404082132.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4, 2007
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_________________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): April 4, 2007
 
MONSANTO COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
800 North Lindbergh Boulevard
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
(
Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(314) 694-1000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
_________________________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On April 4, 2007, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter 2007 financial and operating results for the period ended Feb. 28, 2007. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
_________________________________
 
 
2
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 4, 2007
MONSANTO COMPANY
 
 
By:
        /s/ Jennifer L. Woods                              
 
 
3
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
 
U.S. CORN SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESS LEADS STRONG SECOND-QUARTER AND FIRST-HALF PERFORMANCE FOR MONSANTO COMPANY
Monsanto national brands see strong demand for higher-yielding corn seed offerings, expect market share and corn acreage gains
 
St. Louis  April 4, 2007
 
- more -
 
 
 
- 2 -
 
 
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
 
"While the 2007 agriculture season is shaping up to be an outstanding one, the strong demand that we've seen for our higher-yielding corn seeds and our higher-margin, triple-trait corn technology has translated into an excellent second quarter and first half for our business. For the sixth straight year, our business is poised for market share gains in the U.S. corn seed market. These results, which underscore our continued ability to deliver a higher-yielding corn product to farmers, highlight the value that each of our six growth drivers can contribute to our overall business and, ultimately, our growth trajectory through the end of the decade."
 
Market Conditions
Farmers in the United States are gearing up for the 2007 crop season as planting is already underway in parts of the south. The 2007 season is shaping up to be a strong one for both farmers and the companies that support their business. During the next two months, U.S. farmers will plant corn, soybeans and cotton. Monsanto's pre-season U.S. crop estimates are consistent with the pre-season reports by the U.S. Department of Agriculture and suggest that corn could be planted on as many as 90 million acres, soybeans could be planted on 67 million acres, and cotton could be planted on 12 million acres. Ultimately, the number of acres may change based on weather conditions and other variables related to planting.
 
In the Southern Hemisphere, combines are rolling through the fields and harvest is underway. In Brazil, the soybean harvest is ahead of schedule and expected to reach the mid-point during the next two weeks. Farmers in Argentina have also started harvesting their soybeans as well as this year's summer corn crop. Across the globe, farmers in Australia are gearing to harvest this year's drought-limited cotton crop while cotton farmers in India will begin planting in earnest come May.
 
Operations Update
Monsanto reported record net sales of $2.6 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, which were 19 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2006. Key drivers for the quarter were increased corn seed and traits revenues in the United States, as well as higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in Brazil, the Europe-Africa region and Argentina. Increased sales in the current quarter were partially offset by lower soybean seed and traits revenues in the United States, as the total number of soybean acres is expected to be reduced in favor of corn.
 
Net sales in the company's first half of fiscal year 2007 resulted in record year-to-date sales of $4.2 billion, which were 15 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Key contributors to the company's growth included higher U.S. corn seed and traits revenues, and higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in Brazil, the United States, Argentina and the Europe-Africa region.
 
Monsanto's net income for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007 was 23 percent higher than net income in the same period last year. For the first six months of fiscal year 2007, net income was 27 percent higher than net income in the same period last year.
 
Earnings per share (EPS), both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, was $0.98 for the second quarter and $1.14 for the first six months of the 2007 fiscal year.
 
 
 
 
 
- 3 -
 
Cash Flow
For the first half of fiscal year 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $520 million, compared with $331 million in the same period in 2006. Net cash required by investing activities was $230 million for the first six months of 2007, compared with net cash required of $466 million for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was $290 million for the first half of fiscal year 2007, compared with a use of $135 million in the same period in fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.) Higher net income and lower spending compared to the first half of fiscal year 2006, which included payments for a license agreement related to the animal ag business and a contingency payment related to the Seminis acquisition, contributed to the increase in free cash flow in the first half of 2007. Net cash required by financing activities was $200 million for the first six months of 2007, compared with net cash provided of $191 million for the same period last year.
 
Outlook
Monsanto now expects its full-year 2007 EPS guidance will be in the range of $1.60 to $1.65, both on a reported and ongoing basis. Previously, the company's full-year 2007 EPS guidance was at the upper end of the $1.50 to $1.57 range.
 
The company continues to expect free cash flow for fiscal year 2007 to be in the range of $875 million to $950 million. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.425 billion to $1.5 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $550 million for fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
 
The company's second and third quarters of fiscal year 2007 historically serve as the primary drivers for the company's fiscal year 2007 EPS results. The company historically records a loss in the fourth quarter.
 
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
 
 
 
 
 
- 4 -
 
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $1.8 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 22 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
 
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company realized increased U.S. corn seed and traits revenue. Strong customer demand for its branded corn seed products contributed to the increase in the quarter. This year, the company's national corn seed brands are poised to gain market share in the United States for the sixth consecutive year. In fact, the increase could be 3 or more percentage points, which would be the largest one-year gain for Monsanto brands in the corn seed market. Growth in the quarter was also driven by strong adoption of its higher-margin triple-trait corn technology, which the company effectively sold out in its national and regional corn seed brands. Monsanto technology trait acres were up across the board, with triple-trait corn technology expected to be grown on an estimated 16 million acres, or up more than 160 percent when compared with the 6 million acres the technology was planted on in 2006. The company also expects Roundup Ready corn to be planted on more than 50 million U.S. acres, with YieldGard Rootworm and YieldGard Corn Borer expected to be planted on more than 19 million U.S. acres and 40 million U.S. acres, respectively.
 
Results in the quarter were partially offset by lower soybean seeds and traits sales driven by an anticipated decrease in U.S. soybean acres.
 
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first six months of the 2007 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $2.5 billion, or 16 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2006. The key drivers for growth in the second quarter were also the primary contributors to growth in the first-half of the fiscal year. Results in the first half were partially offset by lower cotton traits sales as farmers in Australia planted fewer cotton acres in the face of a severe drought.
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $779 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 12 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Higher sales of
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 -
 
Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in Brazil, the Europe-Africa region and Argentina contributed to the results in the quarter.
 
Sales for the segment were higher for the first six months of the 2007 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $1.6 billion or 13 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2006. Improved sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in Brazil, the United States, Argentina and Europe-Africa regions were key drivers for growth in the first half of the fiscal year.
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
 
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at
www.monsanto.com
and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
 
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see
www.monsanto.com
.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions, including Delta and Pine Land Company; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Roundup, Roundup Ready and YieldGard are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
 
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 7 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 8 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 9 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. As reflected on page 1 of this release, there were no reconciling items between EPS to Ongoing EPS for the second quarter and six months ended Feb. 28, 2007 and 2006.
                                                                                                                                                                             
 
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2007 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 10 -
 
- oOo -
 
 
 
 
 


