FILE:MON/MON-8K-20070628082720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
As Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 28, 2007
 
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
_________________________________
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): June 28, 2007
 
MONSANTO COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 
 
800 North Lindbergh Boulevard
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
(
Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code)
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:
(314) 694-1000
 
Not Applicable
(Former Name or Former Address, If Changed Since Last Report)
_________________________________
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On June 28, 2007, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its third quarter 2007 financial and operating results for the period ended May 31, 2007. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
 
 
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
 
_________________________________
 
2
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: June 28, 2007
MONSANTO COMPANY
 
 
By:
            
/s/ Jennifer L. Woods
 
 
 
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
MONSANTO
COMPANY
800
NORTH
LINDBERGH
BLVD
63167
ST.
LOUIS,
MISSOURI
 
SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESS CONTRIBUTES TO STRONG RESULTS IN THIRD
QUARTER AND YEAR-TO-DATE FOR MONSANTO COMPANY
Monsanto sees increased use of its corn seeds and traits globally, company expects
sixth consecutive year of branded corn market share gains in U.S.
 
St. Louis  June 28, 2007
 
- more -
 
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
 
"The 2007 season is shaping up to be an extraordinary year for agriculture. We've been able to deliver strong results through this point of the year, and we expect that our gains will contribute to added momentum for our business through the end of the decade."
 
Market Conditions
The 2007 crop season is well under way throughout the Northern Hemisphere. In the United States, farmers planting corn, cotton and soybean worked with varied temperatures and conditions, including excessive dry and wet areas, as they worked to plant this season's crops. Currently, reports from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) note that the majority of corn, cotton and soybean varieties are facing good crop growing conditions with the vast majority of these crops already having emerged. Monsanto continues to see strong customer demand for its branded corn seed products in the U.S. corn seed market. The company is also seeing strong customer demand for its branded corn seed products in key countries in Europe particularly in Italy, France and Germany.
 
In the Southern Hemisphere, the harvest season is underway. The USDA's world production report suggests that corn farmers in Argentina and Brazil both experienced higher yields this season. Both countries are also expected to see higher production in soybeans as farmers expanded their planted crop areas. In India, Monsanto continues to see strong demand for its Bollgard insect-protected cotton technologies. In the 2007 season, Indian cotton farmers planted an estimated 13 to 14 million acres of Monsanto's cotton trait technologies, or up by approximately two-thirds from last year.
 
Operations Update
Monsanto reported record net sales of $2.8 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, which were 23 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2006. Key drivers for the quarter were increased corn seed and traits revenues in the United States, as well as higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the North America and Europe-Africa regions. Increased sales in the current quarter were partially offset by lower cotton trait revenues in the United States, as farmers reduced the number of acres planted to cotton.
 
Net sales in the company's first nine months of fiscal year 2007 resulted in year-to-date sales of $7.0 billion, which were 18 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Key contributors to the company's growth included higher U.S. corn seed and traits revenues, as well as higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally. Sales in the first nine months were partially offset by lower soybean seed and trait revenues, as U.S. farmers reduced the number of acres planted in favor of corn. Results in the first three quarters also reflected lower cotton trait revenues, as the total number of acres planted in Australia and the United States were reduced compared with the prior year.
 
Monsanto's net income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 was 71 percent higher than net income in the same period last year. For the first nine months of fiscal year 2007, net income was 44 percent higher than net income in the same period last year.
 
Earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007 was $1.03 on an as-reported basis, and $1.02 on an ongoing basis. Earnings per share (EPS) for the first nine months of fiscal year 2007 was $2.17 on an as-reported basis, and $2.18 on an ongoing basis. EPS results for the third quarter and first
 
- 2 -
 
three quarters reflects the effect of discontinued operations for the Stoneville
and NexGen
cottonseed businesses. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 2.)
 
Cash Flow
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $89 million, compared with $184 million in the same period in 2006. Net cash required by investing activities was $410 million for the first nine months of 2007, compared with net cash required of $408 million for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was a use of $321 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2007, compared with a use of $224 million in the same period in fiscal year 2006. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.) Free cash flow in the first three quarters, when compared with free cash in the same period last year, reflected higher net income which was more than offset by higher working capital. Net cash required by financing activities was $204 million for the first nine months of 2007, compared with net cash provided of $294 million for the same period last year.
 
Outlook
Earlier this month, Monsanto announced that it was increasing its fiscal year 2007 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance to $1.75 to $1.80 per share, up from its prior guidance of $1.60 to $1.65 per share on an ongoing basis. The company's ongoing EPS excludes the nonrecurring effect of the Stoneville and NexGen divestitures and the write-off of acquired in-process R&D associated with the acquisition of Delta and Pine Land Company (D&PL). On an as-reported basis, Monsanto expects EPS to be in the range of $1.36 to $1.54. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 2.)
 
The company expects that its free cash flow for fiscal year 2007 will now be in the range of a use of $250 million to a use of $200 million, compared with its previous guidance in the range of $875 million to $950 million. The company's free cash flow guidance for the 2007 fiscal year reflects the cash effect of Monsanto's $1.5 billion acquisition D&PL, net of cash acquired and debt assumed; as well as the receipt of $317 million for the sale of the Stoneville and NexGen cottonseed businesses. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.71 billion to $1.76 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.96 billion for fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
 
Monsanto's fourth quarter is largely influenced by its U.S. cotton and U.S. Roundup business. The company historically records a loss in the fourth quarter. This year, the company announced that earnings from its recent D&PL acquisition will also be consolidated into its results beginning in the fourth quarter. The company continues to expect that D&PL earnings will be moderately dilutive, as it historically has reported a loss in the fourth quarter.
 
Related News
As part of today's announcement, the company announced that it was revising its previously announced opportunities for its corn trait technologies in the United States. The company now estimates that:
 
Monsanto also announced that its Board of Directors recently approved a three-year, $610 million capital investment for the company's U.S. corn production facilities. The investment plan includes expansions at nine existing corn production facilities, as well as two greenfield sites in the heart of the Corn Belt. This represents the largest reinvestment that Monsanto has made in its history as an ag company. Additional details related to the expansion have not been disclosed at this time.
- 3 -
 
 
Seeds and Genomics Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $1.7 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 32 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
 
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, the company realized increased U.S. corn seed and traits revenue as strong customer demand for its branded corn seed products contributed to a sixth consecutive year of market share gains in the U.S. corn seed market. The increase could be as large as 4 or 5 percentage points, pending final returns, which would be the largest historical one-year gain for Monsanto brands in the corn seed market. Results in the quarter also benefited from higher corn seed sales internationally, particularly in the Europe-Africa region and Argentina.
 
Segment sales in the quarter were partially offset by lower cotton trait revenues in the United States, as farmers reduced the number of acres planted to cotton.
 
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first nine months of the 2007 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. Sales for the first nine months were $4.2 billion, or 22 percent higher than sales in fiscal year 2006. The key drivers for growth in the third quarter were also the primary contributors to growth in the first three quarters of the fiscal year. Sales through the first nine months were partially offset by lower sales of soybean seeds and traits in the United States, as well as lower sales of cotton traits in Australia and the United States.
 
- 4 -
 
Agricultural Productivity Segment Detail
 
 
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $1.1 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, or 12 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Results in the quarter benefited from higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in the United States, the Europe-Africa region and Canada.
 
Sales for the segment were higher for the first three quarters of the 2007 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. Segment sales through the first nine months were $2.8 billion or 13 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2006. Results through the first three quarters benefited from higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally, primarily in Brazil, the United States, the Europe-Africa region, Canada and Argentina.
 
Preliminary Trait Acreage Report
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto also published a preliminary report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2007. This report is available on Monsanto's web site.
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
 
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at
http://www.monsanto.com/monsanto/layout/investor/
. Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
 
- 5 -
 
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see
www.monsanto.com
.
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Bollgard, Roundup, Roundup Ready and YieldGard are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
 
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to "Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides" exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
 
- oOo -
 
- 6 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
Unaudited
 
 
 
- 7 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
- 8 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
- 9 -
 
Monsanto Company
Selected Financial Information
(Dollars in millions)
Unaudited
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
 
 
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2007 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
 
- 10 -
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 -
 
 
 


