FILE:MON/MON-8K-20070921115228.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d.-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.
     On September 17, 2007, Monsanto Company issued a press release updating its earnings per share and free cash flow guidance for fiscal year 2007. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99, and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations. Such items might include the effects of discontinued operations and divestitures, nonrecurring charges related to acquisitions, and charges related to restructuring. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 21, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99
MONSANTO INCREASES ONGOING EARNINGS PER SHARE GUIDANCE, PROVIDES FREE CASH FLOW GUIDANCE FOR FISCAL YEAR 2007
ST. LOUIS (Sept. 17, 2007)  Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON) announced today that its fiscal year 2007 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance is now expected to be approximately $2.00 per share, or approximately $1.79 on a reported basis. The company had previously estimated that its fiscal year 2007 EPS would be in the range of $1.75 to $1.80 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
The company noted that several factors are contributing to its better-than-anticipated results, including:
"By all measures, Monsanto has achieved extraordinary performance across our business in what was an extraordinary year for agriculture," said Hugh Grant, Monsanto chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Our performance this year serves as a springboard for our future success, setting us up for expanded growth opportunities not just for 2008, but through the turn of the decade."
The company also announced that it now expects that its free cash flow for fiscal year 2007 will be a use of approximately $60 million, compared with its previous guidance of a use of $250 million to $200 million. The company's free cash flow guidance for the 2007 fiscal year reflects the cash effect of Monsanto's $1.5 billion acquisition D&PL, net of cash acquired and debt assumed; as well as the receipt of $317 million for the sale of the Stoneville and NexGen cottonseed businesses. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be approximately $1.9 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.9 billion for fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 2.)
Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) is a leading global provider of technology- based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
http://www.monsanto.com/
Monsanto Company Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ
 
materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful completion and operation of recent and proposed acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Roundup is a registered trademark owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in this release exclude lawn-and-garden products.
 


