FILE:MON/MON-8K-20080103085523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
     
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On January 3, 2008, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter fiscal year 2008 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2007. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
Item 9.01.      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99
HIGHER SALES OF MONSANTO'S ROUNDUP, SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESSES IN LATIN AMERICA DRIVE FIRST-QUARTER RESULTS
Monsanto Raises Full-Year EPS and Free Cash Flow Guidance
St. Louis  Jan. 3, 2008
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Our results in the first quarter represent a solid start to the fiscal year and highlight the strong performance of our Latin American business. With the most significant part of our annual business cycle still to come, we believe these results position us for another strong fiscal year for our business. We're seeing tremendous progress in projects across our R&D pipeline, and this underscores both our momentum and the value that our business is poised to deliver to farmers."
The winter months in the Northern Hemisphere agricultural markets provide farmers with an opportunity to review their input costs for the 2008 season  including new seed, trait and chemistry offerings. Strong early-season order patterns in the United States for the company's corn business are reinforcing growth trends in the company's branded seed business and adoption of trait technologies, particularly its triple-trait corn technology. Monsanto now expects that its DEKALB corn seed brand in the U.S. could realize an increase of 2-to-3 percentage points, up from its previously announced range of 1-to-2 points.
Market Conditions
The growing season is well under way in the Southern Hemisphere. In Brazil, higher corn commodity prices have resulted in an increase in the number of total corn acres planted within the country to approximately 35 million acres. Monsanto currently estimates that the Brazilian hybrid corn seed market is 28 million acres. Recent estimates also suggest that soybean production in the country could be slightly higher than last season as well, or slightly higher than the 50 million acres planted last year.
The company reported net sales of $2.1 billion for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, which were 36 percent higher than those in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007. The results in the quarter reflect the strong performance of the company's businesses outside the United States. Key drivers for the quarter were increased sales of Roundup agricultural herbicides in Brazil, Argentina and Europe, as well as stronger adoption of the company's seed and trait technologies in Brazil and Argentina.
Operations Update
For the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, Monsanto recorded net income of $256 million compared with net income of $90 million for the same period last year. Earnings per share (EPS) for the quarter, both on an as-reported and ongoing basis, were 46 cents a share.
For first-quarter fiscal year 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $996 million, compared with $600 million in the first-quarter of fiscal year 2007. Net cash required by investing activities was $256 million for the first-quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with $67 million for the same quarter of fiscal year 2007. As a result, free cash flow was $740 million for the first-quarter fiscal year 2008, compared with $533 million for the same quarter in fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) The increase in the three-month comparison related primarily to higher customer pre-payments in the United States. Net cash required by financing activities was $47 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with $156 million for the same period in fiscal year 2007.
Cash Flow
 
The second and third quarters of fiscal year 2008 are expected to be the primary drivers for the company's fiscal year 2008 EPS results. These quarters reflect both the relative size of the company's U.S. business and the importance of its seeds-and-traits business to Monsanto's earnings.
Outlook
Monsanto's full-year 2008 EPS is now expected to be in the range of $2.50 to $2.60, excluding the impact of Solutia's emergence from bankruptcy, both on a reported and ongoing basis. The company also announced that it now expects that its free cash flow guidance for fiscal year 2008 will be higher even as it expects higher capital expenditures in fiscal year 2008. Strong demand for the company's corn seed products pulled forward the capital expenditures at its North American corn seed manufacturing facilities which had been previously announced as part of its two-year $610 capital expenditure plan.
The company noted that its free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 is now expected to be in the range of $900 million to $1 billion. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $1.95 billion to $2.05 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.05 billion for fiscal year 2008. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Because Monsanto cannot predict with certainty when Solutia will be able to satisfy the conditions of its bankruptcy emergence, Monsanto's full-year 2008 EPS and cash flow guidance does not reflect any receipt of cash or equity reimbursements associated with Solutia's anticipated emergence from bankruptcy and the resolution of Monsanto's claim. If Solutia emerges from bankruptcy protection as it currently projects in January 2008, Monsanto anticipates that it could realize a non-recurring gain (net of tax) of approximately $0.22 to $0.24 per share in second quarter 2008 for the settlement of Monsanto's claim.
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
 
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $836 million for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 23 percent higher than the same period last year.
Results in the quarter benefited from increased sales from the company's corn seed and traits business, which were 30 percent higher when compared with sales in the same period last year. The increase in the quarter related primarily to strong demand for the company's corn seed products in key corn-growing areas including Brazil and Argentina.
During the quarter, Monsanto's U.S. corn business also realized strong early orders for the company's corn products  including its triple-trait technology which offers farmers both above-the-ground and below-the-ground insect protection, as well as weed control flexibility. The company is now forecasting that its triple-stack product could be planted on 25-to-27 million acres in the United States, an increase of some 50 percent over the prior year. Monsanto also now expects that its DEKALB corn seed brand in the U.S. could realize an increase of 2-to-3 percentage points, up from its previously announced range of 1-to-2 points.
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, residential lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and the company's animal agriculture business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $1.3 billion for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 47 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. The primary contributors to the segment's growth in the quarter were higher pricing and volume of the company's Roundup agricultural herbicides in Brazil, Argentina and Europe.
Gross profit for the segment in the first quarter was $560 million or than more double compared with gross profit in the same period last year. The increase in the quarter related primarily to higher pricing of branded Roundup herbicides as well as higher volumes.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of
 
projects within the company's R&D pipeline. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits, including proceedings related to Solutia Inc.; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent periodic report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: DEKALB and Roundup are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 


