FILE:MON/MON-8K-20081007160012.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 2, 2008, Monsanto Company issued a press release updating its guidance for fiscal year 2008.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated October 2, 2008, issued by Monsanto Company
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 7, 2008
3

St. Louis, Missouri 63167
MONSANTO INCREASES 2008 EARNINGS-PER-SHARE GUIDANCE, WITH GROWTH CONTINUING FROM THE COMPANYS SEEDS-AND-TRAITS AND ROUNDUP BUSINESSES
ST. LOUIS (Oct. 2, 2008) - Monsanto Company (MON: NYSE) today raised its fiscal year 2008 earnings-per-share (EPS) guidance again, citing a strong conclusion to the fiscal year from its Roundup and other glyphosate-related herbicide business paired with the previously announced better-than-anticipated seeds-and-traits performance.
Monsanto indicated that it now expected ongoing EPS guidance for 2008 in the range of $3.64 and revised its reported EPS guidance in the range of $3.59.  In mid-September, the company indicated it expected ongoing EPS guidance in the range of $3.58 to $3.60, with reported EPS in the range of $3.49 to $3.51.
Our business continues to be strong on all fronts, and thats reflected in both our performance and in our confidence in our outlook going forward, said Hugh Grant, Monsantos chairman, president and chief executive officer.  Our Roundup business continues to represent a sustainable platform that we can pair with the accelerated growth in our seeds-and-traits business to more than double the size of our total company gross profit from 2007 to 2012.
Increased Outlook for Roundup
As a part of the announcement on the year-end expectations today, Monsanto also increased the targets for the 2009 fiscal year and its 2012 long-term targets for the Roundup business.
Previously, Monsanto indicated it expected the full year gross profit contribution from Roundup for 2009 to be in the range of $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion. Given additional clarity going into fiscal year 2009, Monsanto now expects that Roundup will generate in the range of $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion in gross profit in fiscal year 2009.  The company also increased the 2012 gross-profit target to $1.9 billion from its original target of $1.8 billion.
Monsanto recently completed a comprehensive analysis of the worldwide glyphosate industry through 2012, noting a number of key contributors to the companys increased expectations:
The analysis weve done on the worldwide glyphosate industry continues to confirm for us that there is a growing market whose fundamental cost structure has changed, said Grant.
From the perspective of Monsantos business, its important to be clear that Roundup alone does not drive Monsantos growth plan.  Our ability to more than double the size our of total company gross profit from 2007 to 2012 is a function of the accelerated opportunity we see in our global seeds and traits business, said Grant.
Grant noted that the increased guidance for 2008 reflects previously communicated better-than-anticipated results from its seeds-and-traits business.  The company reiterated that its corn seeds and traits platform was expected to continue to drive growth in 2009, with a target of 25 to 30 percent gross profit growth over its increased 2007 performance.
Monsanto will report its complete fourth-quarter and full-year 2008 financial results, including its 2009 outlook on Oct. 8.  Financial results and supporting information for the earnings release will be available through the investor section of Monsanto's website at .
http://www.monsanto.com/investors
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .
www.monsanto.com
:
Monsanto Company Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning Monsanto's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent report on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.


