FILE:MON/MON-8K-20081008080701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 8, 2008, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter fiscal year 2008 financial and operating results for the period ended August 31, 2008. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated October 8, 2008, issued by Monsanto Company
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 8, 2008
3

MONSANTO SEES RECORD SALES IN FISCAL YEAR 2008; GROWTH SERVES AS STRONG BASE FOR 2009
Monsanto increases gross profit target for 2012 to $9.5 billion to $9.75 billion
St. Louis  Oct. 8, 2008
-more-
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Across the industry, every company is dealing with historic volatility caused by uncertainty in the commodities and credit markets, but our fundamental belief is that if we focus on the things in our business that we control, and we do those things well, theres significant growth ahead for our business.  As the markets sort themselves out, our basic premise will be the same  greater grain demand drives the need for more yield, more yield requires more innovation, and the companies that innovate will grow.  Thats exactly who we are.
Operations Update
Monsanto reported record net sales of $2 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, which were 35 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2007. Key drivers for the quarter were higher sales of branded Roundup herbicides and soybean seeds and traits. Sales of vegetable seeds also improved primarily from the inclusion of the De Ruiter vegetable seeds business, which was not part of the companys business in the prior fourth quarter.
Monsanto saw record net sales of $11.4 billion in the companys fiscal year 2008, which were 36 percent higher than sales in fiscal year 2007. Key contributors to the company's growth included increased sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally, higher worldwide corn seed and traits revenue, increased revenue from the companys U.S. soybean and cotton seeds and traits businesses. Increased revenue from the companys vegetable seed portfolio also contributed to results in the year.
Monsanto reported a net loss of $172 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with a reported net loss of $210 million in the same period last year. The company previously disclosed an expected loss for the fourth quarter as a result of seasonality in certain product sales and in-process research and development (IPR&D) expenses related to the acquisition of the De Ruiter vegetable seeds business. For fiscal year 2008, Monsanto reported net income of $2 billion, which was significantly higher than net income of $993 million in fiscal year 2007.
Loss per share for the fourth quarter was $(0.31) on an as-reported basis, and was $(0.03) on an ongoing basis. Earnings per share (EPS) for fiscal year 2008 was $3.62 on an as-reported basis, and $3.64 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1.) As-reported EPS results for both periods reflect the effect of discontinued operations for the Posilac brand and related dairy business, as well as IPR&D charges. EPS results for the full year were also affected favorably by $0.23 per share after tax from the settlement of Monsantos claims in conjunction with Solutias emergence from bankruptcy.
Cash Flow
For fiscal year 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $2.8 billion, compared with $1.9 billion in the same period in 2007. Net cash required by investing activities was $2 billion in fiscal year 2008, compared with net cash required of $1.9 billion for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was a source of $772 million for fiscal year 2008, compared with a use of $57 million in fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) Free cash flow in fiscal year 2008 supported the investment of $1 billion in acquisitions and technology investments, a reinvestment of an additional $918 million in capital expenditures as well as the return of $419 million of cash to shareowners through dividends, and a $361 million share repurchase investment. Net cash required by financing activities was $102 million for fiscal year 2008, compared with net cash required of $583 million last year.
-2-
Outlook
Monsanto said that its full-year 2009 EPS guidance, on an as-reported and ongoing basis, is in the range of $4.20 to $4.40. The companys 2009 EPS guidance reflects a projected growth rate of approximately 15 percent to 20 percent from the fiscal year 2008 EPS ongoing base of $3.64 per share.
The company also provided guidance for free cash flow for fiscal year 2009 in the range of $1.8 billion. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $3 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.2 billion for fiscal year 2009. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Monsanto also noted that it expects that SG&A expense as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2009 will be in the range of 19 percent and that its R&D expenses as a percent of sales for fiscal year 2009 are expected to be in the range of 9.5 percent to 10 percent.
Monsanto announced that it now expects that gross profit for the entire company will grow to $9.5 billion to $9.75 billion for 2012, or roughly two-and-a-quarter times the companys 2007 base. This estimate exceeds the companys prior gross profit estimate of $8.6 billion to $9.1 billion. The company also noted that it expects to realize a compound annual growth rate for gross profit of 18 percent to 20 percent through 2012.
Trait Acreage Report
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto published its year-end report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2008. This report is available on Monsanto's web site at: .
www.monsanto.com/monsanto/layout/investor/company/crop.asp
Performance Against Key Growth Drivers Between 2007 and 2012
Between 2007 and the end of 2012, Monsantos business is poised to effectively double the gross profit potential of its business. This growth will be led by the companys performance against six key areas within its global seeds and traits business (see below). These drivers were outlined at the companys November 2007 investor event. The chart below outlines Monsantos progress against its six growth drivers during its 2008 fiscal year.
 
-3-
-4-
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment were $941 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 27 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, the company realized improved sales from its soybean seed and traits business. Results in the quarter also benefited from improved sales of vegetable seeds with the inclusion of sales from the De Ruiter vegetable seeds business, which were not part of the companys business in the prior fourth quarter.Fourth-quarter sales from Monsantos corn seed and traits business were down 3 percent because of timing of branded sales and licensee royalties.
 
Monsanto realized record segment sales of $6.4 billion for fiscal year 2008, which were 28 percent higher compared with sales last fiscal year. The key driver for growth in the fiscal year was higher global corn seed and traits revenue, which increased 26 percent compared with the same period last year. Strong customer demand for the companys branded corn seed products contributed to a seventh consecutive year of share gains in the U.S. corn seed region for our DEKALB brand. This year the brand gained 2.5 percentage points.
The companys performance in the year also benefited from improved soybean seed and traits revenue, as farmer demand increased and as more acres were planted to soybeans in the United States.
-5-
Results in the year also benefited from improved sales of cotton seeds and traits, as well as improved sales of vegetable seeds. These results included the companys acquisitions of Delta and Pine Land Company, which was completed in the fourth quarter of 2007, and the De Ruiter vegetable seeds business, which the company acquired in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products and the lawn-and-garden herbicide business.
Sales for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment were $1.1 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 43 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Results in the quarter reflect improved pricing of branded Roundup herbicides.
Sales for the segment were $5 billion for fiscal year 2008, or 48 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Segment sales benefited from higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally. Improved pricing in all regions contributed to the results.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at . Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com/investor/
About Monsanto Company
 
-6-
Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON) is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .
http://www.monsanto.com/
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: DEKALB, Roundup Ready 2 Yield, YieldGard, Deltapine, SmartStax, Bollgard, Bollgard II, DeRuiter Seeds, Roundup Ready and Roundup are registered trademarks owned by Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All other trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and references to Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides exclude all lawn-and-garden herbicides.
-7-
-8-
-9-
-10-
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2009 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
-11-


