FILE:MON/MON-8K-20080625082436.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On June 25, 2008, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its third quarter fiscal year 2008 financial and operating results for the period ended May 31, 2008. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Information concerning Monsanto's use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsanto's most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
(d) Exhibits
     The following exhibit is filed herewith:
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

EXHIBIT 99
STRONG RESULTS IN ROUNDUP, SEEDS AND TRAITS BUSINESSES PROPEL MONSANTO TO RECORD THIRD-QUARTER AND YEAR-TO-DATE RESULTS
Monsanto sees increased use of its corn seeds and traits globally, company expects seventh consecutive year of branded corn market share gains in U.S.
St. Louis  June 25, 2008
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"Backed by continued growing demand for our products, the first nine months of our fiscal year has been remarkable and we're now increasing our full-year guidance. This strong growth sets up a solid foundation for our business and to reach our target of more than doubling gross profit in 2012. Because we're both discovering and delivering innovative tools that can help increase productivity on farm, we offer an attractive solution to the farmer and their mission of meeting our world's growing food, feed and fuel needs. While others are asking should it be food OR feed OR fuel, we believe the answer is AND, and we have the solutions in hand to be a significant part of that answer."
Operations Update
Monsanto reported record net sales of $3.6 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, which were 26 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2007. Results in the quarter reflected increased revenues from the company's Roundup agricultural herbicides globally, increased soybean seed and traits revenues in the United States, increased corn seed and trait revenues in the United States, higher corn seed revenues in Europe-Africa, and higher cotton seed and trait revenue in the United States.
Net sales in the company's first nine months of fiscal year 2008 resulted in year-to-date sales of $9.5 billion, which were 35 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Key contributors to the company's growth included increased sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally, higher worldwide corn seed and traits revenues as well as increased soybean seed and traits revenues and cotton seed and traits revenues in the United States.
Monsanto's net income for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 was $811 million or 42 percent higher than net income in the same period last year. For the first nine months of fiscal year 2008, net income was 83 percent higher than net income in the same period last year.
Earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 were $1.45 both on an as-reported basis and an ongoing basis. EPS for the first nine months of fiscal year 2008 were $3.93 on an as-reported basis, and $3.70 on an ongoing basis. EPS results for the first three quarters were affected favorably by $0.23 per share after tax from the settlement of Monsanto's claims in conjunction with Solutia's emergence from bankruptcy. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1.)
Cash Flow
For the first nine months of fiscal year 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.3 billion, compared with $89 million in the same period in 2007. Net cash required by investing activities was $650 million for the first nine months of 2008, compared with net cash required of $410 million for the same period last year. As a result, free cash flow was a source of $675 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2008, compared with a use of $321 million in the same period in fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) Improved earnings, higher collections from accounts receivable and customer prepayments and the settlement of the Solutia-related claim contributed to the increase in free cash flow in the first nine months of 2008. Net cash provided by financing activities was $93 million for the first nine months of 2008, compared with net cash required of $204 million for the same period last year.
 
Outlook
Monsanto's fourth quarter is largely influenced by its global cotton business and U.S. Roundup agricultural herbicides business. The company historically records a loss in the fourth quarter.
Monsanto now expects that its full-year 2008 EPS will be approximately $3.63 on a reported basis and approximately $3.40 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1). Monsanto's full-year 2008 EPS guidance on a reported basis does not include an estimate for the in-process, research and development charge associated with the company's fourth quarter acquisitions.
The company now expects that its free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 will be $550 million. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $2.6 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $2.05 billion for fiscal year 2008. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) This revised free cash flow guidance reflects the recently-completed acquisition of De Ruiter Seeds as well as the recently-announced acquisition of Marmot, S.A., which operates Semillas Cristiani Burkard (SCB), a privately-held seed company headquartered in Guatemala City, Guatemala.
Preliminary Trait Acreage Report
As part of today's announcement, Monsanto also published a preliminary report on the company's biotech trait acreage for fiscal year 2008. This report is available on Monsanto's web site at .
www.monsanto.com
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $2 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 20 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, the company realized increased soybean seed and traits revenues in the United States, increased corn seed and trait revenues in the United States, higher corn seed revenues in Europe-Africa and increased U.S. cotton seed and trait revenues. Monsanto expects that strong customer demand for its branded corn seed products contributed to a seventh consecutive year of market share gains in the U.S. corn seed market. In the United States, Monsanto's DEKALB brand could realize 2 to 3 percentage points in share growth and 1 to 2 percentage points in its American Seeds Inc. brands, pending final returns. In Argentina, Monsanto's brand increased 5 percentage points while its brands held share flat in Brazil, as the company had anticipated.
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first nine months of the 2008 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. Sales for the first nine months were $5.4 billion, or 29 percent higher than sales in fiscal year 2007. Key contributors to the company's growth through the first nine months included higher worldwide corn seed and traits revenues, increased soybean seed and traits revenues in the United States as well as higher U.S. cotton seed and traits revenue.
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, the lawn-and-garden herbicide business, and the company's animal agricultural business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $1.5 billion for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 36 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Results in the quarter benefited from increased average net selling prices for the company's Roundup agricultural herbicides globally.
Sales for the segment were higher for the first three quarters of the 2008 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. Segment sales through the first nine months were $4 billion or 46 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2007. Results through the first three quarters benefited from higher average net selling prices of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally.
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
Webcast Information
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at . Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
http://www.monsanto.com/investors/
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: DEKALB and Roundup are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 


