FILE:MON/MON-8K-20080402082943.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02.      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
     On April 2, 2008, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter fiscal year 2008 financial and operating results for the period ended February 29, 2008. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS") on an ongoing basis. Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations, which are identified as such in the reconciliation. We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation. The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors' understanding of our operating performance. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. Information concerning Monsanto's use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsanto's most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
     We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC. This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
     
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99
MONSANTO DELIVERS RECORD SECOND-QUARTER RESULTS ON STRONG GROWTH
OF U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL CORN BUSINESSES, GROWING DEMAND FOR ROUNDUP
St. Louis  April 2, 2008
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
"The performance of our seeds and traits business has us on track for another exceptional year and well positioned to support our five-year strategic growth plan. Between now and 2012, we are the only agriculture company that can point to consistent growth irrespective of commodity price swings, fluctuations in planted acres or the popularity of ethanol. Over the next five years we're poised to set the bar higher as we deliver a game changing platform every other year, real products that create real value for the farmer and for our shareowners."
Monsanto reported record net sales of $3.8 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, which were 45 percent higher than sales in the same period in fiscal year 2007. Key drivers for the quarter were increased revenues from the company's U.S. corn seed and traits business as well as increased revenues from its Brazilian corn seed business. Results in the quarter also reflected increased revenues from the company's Roundup agricultural herbicides globally.
Operations Update
Monsanto saw record sales of $5.9 billion in the first six months of the company's fiscal year 2008. The year-to-date sales were 42 percent higher than sales compared with the same period in fiscal year 2007. Key contributors to the company's growth included increased sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally as well as higher worldwide corn seed and traits revenues.
Monsanto reported net income of $1.1 billion in the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with reported net income of $543 million in the same period last year. For the first six months of fiscal year 2008, Monsanto reported net income of $1.4 billion, which was significantly higher than net income of $633 million the company realized in the first six months of fiscal year 2007.
Earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter was $2.02 on an as-reported basis, and was $1.79 on an ongoing basis. Earnings per share (EPS) for the first six months of fiscal year 2008 were $2.48 on an as-reported basis, and $2.25 on an ongoing basis. Both periods were affected favorably by $0.23 per share from the settlement of Monsanto's claims in conjunction with Solutia's emergence from bankruptcy. In recognition of its claims and contributions, Monsanto received $163 million in cash and approximately 2.5 million shares of new Solutia common stock during the second quarter. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1).
For second quarter fiscal year 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.9 billion, compared with $520 million in the same period of fiscal year 2007. Net cash required by investing activities was $404 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with $230 million for the same quarter of fiscal year 2007. As a result, free cash flow was $1.5 billion for the second quarter fiscal year 2008, compared with $290 million for the same quarter in fiscal year 2007. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) Improved earnings, higher accruals for marketing programs because of higher sales, and higher customer prepayments contributed to the increase in free cash flow in the first half of 2008. Cash received for the settlement of the Solutia-related claim also contributed to the increase in the period. Net cash required by financing activities was $142 million for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, compared with $200 million for the same period in fiscal year 2007.
Cash Flow
 
The second and third quarters of fiscal year 2008 are expected to be the primary drivers for the company's fiscal year 2008 EPS results. These quarters reflect both the relative size of the company's U.S. business and the importance of its seeds and traits business to Monsanto's earnings. The company historically records a loss in the fourth quarter.
Outlook
Monsanto's full-year 2008 EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.38 to $3.48 on a reported basis and in the range of $3.15 and $3.25 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1).
The company now expects that its free cash flow for fiscal year 2008 will be $1.3 billion. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $2.45 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.15 billion for fiscal year 2008. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) This revised free cash flow guidance reflects planned capital expenditures to de-bottleneck Monsanto's glyphosate production facility in Luling, Louisiana, which were announced separately today.
Monsanto's full-year 2008 EPS and free cash flow guidance does not reflect the effect of the recently-announced agreement to acquire De Ruiter Seeds.
 
Between 2007 and the end of 2012, Monsanto's business is poised to effectively double the gross profit potential of its business. This growth will be led by the company's performance against six key areas within its global seeds and traits business (see below). These drivers were recently outlined at a November 2007 investor event. The chart below outlines Monsanto's progress against its six growth drivers. It will be published as part of the company's second- and fourth-quarter earnings announcements of its 2008 fiscal year.
Performance Against Key Growth Drivers Between 2007 and 2012
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the company's global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsanto's Seeds and Genomics segment were $2.5 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 39 percent higher than sales in the same period last year.
During the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, the company realized increased revenue from its branded corn seed and traits business in the United States, Brazil and Europe based on strong customer demand. Results in the quarter also reflected increased revenue from its U.S. soybean seed and traits business as well as increased sales of the company's Seminis vegetable seed business.
This year, the company's national and regional corn seed brands are poised to gain market share in the United States. Monsanto currently estimates that its DEKALB corn seed brand could grow by 2 to 3 percentage points, a substantial gain for a seventh consecutive season. Monsanto also estimates that its American Seeds Inc. corn seed brands could grow by 1 to 2 percentage points.
Growth in the quarter was also driven by strong adoption of its higher-margin triple-trait corn technology in its national and regional corn seed brands. Monsanto technology trait acres were up across the board, with triple- trait corn technology expected to be grown on an estimated 26-to-28 million acres in the United States, or an increase of more than 39 percent compared with the prior year. Monsanto now estimates that its portfolio mix of the higher-margin triple-trait technology in its DEKALB brand will be at the upper end of its previously announced range of 55 to 60 percent, and that the mix in its American Seeds Inc brands will be approximately 55 percent.
 
Sales for the segment were also higher for the first six months of the 2008 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $3.4 billion, or 35 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2007. The key drivers for growth in the second quarter were also the primary contributors to growth in the first-half of the fiscal year.
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists primarily of crop protection products, residential lawn-and-garden herbicide products, and the company's animal agriculture business.
Sales for Monsanto's Agricultural Productivity segment were $1.2 billion for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008, or 58 percent higher compared with sales in the same period last year. Higher sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally contributed to the results in the quarter.
Sales for the segment were higher for the first six months of the 2008 fiscal year compared with sales in the same period last year. First-half segment sales were $2.5 billion or 52 percent higher than first-half segment sales in fiscal year 2007. Improved sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides globally were a key driver for growth in the first half of the fiscal year. Improved pricing, volume and mix of branded Roundup herbicides also contributed to the increase in both periods.
Gross profit for the segment in the first six months was $1.2 billion or more than double the gross profit realized in the same period last year. The increase in the period related primarily to higher pricing of branded Roundup herbicides as well as higher volumes.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations. The call may also include a discussion of Monsanto's strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the company's business.
 
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the company's web site at and clicking on "Investor Information." Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. For more information on Monsanto, see .
About Monsanto Company
www.monsanto.com
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Bollgard, DEKALB, Roundup Ready 2 Yield, Seminis, YieldGard and Roundup are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations. The reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS for the second quarter and six months ended Feb. 29, 2008, and Feb. 28, 2007, is included on page 1 of this release.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2008 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:


