FILE:MON/MON-8K-20091211114217.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 8, 2009, Monsanto Company issued a press release which included guidance for its first quarter and full year fiscal year 2010. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-K.
   
 We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
   
ITEM 9.01.                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated December 8, 2009, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  December 11, 2009
 
3
 
 
 

 
 
MONSANTO REITERATES CONFIDENCE IN ABILITY TO REACH 2012 FINANCIAL TARGETS AND REAFFIRMS 2010 GUIDANCE
President and CEO Hugh Grant Previews Yield Results Supporting Blockbuster New Products and Reaffirms Earnings Per Share and Cash Flow Guidance for 2010
 
(Dec. 8, 2009)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) is on track in its operational path to reach its 2012 financial commitments, President and CEO Hugh Grant will tell investors today.  Speaking at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2009 Global Industries Conference in New York, Grant also will preview yield results the company plans to release later today as promising indicators for 2010 and the path toward 2012.
ST. LOUIS
Grant will focus his remarks on the strength of the companys operational plan and the three key elements that are expected to enable Monsanto to double 2007 gross profit in 2012: the launches and rapid penetration of Genuity SmartStax corn and Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybean products as well as rapid trait penetration in Brazil and Argentina.
TM
TM
TM
Our goals are ambitious but achievable, Grant will say.  Our pipeline is at its most robust, holding great promise for years to come.  We are continuing to see acceptance of biotechnology around the world, which will enable us to meet future demand.  And this year marks the beginning of a wave of technologies that will each bring step changes in performance on farm  and that starts with Genuity SmartStax and GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield.
 
Addressing the yield results Monsanto will release later today at the American Seed Trade Association annual conference in Chicago, Grant will say these products are already delivering on the farm.
What were seeing in our yield results this year tells me we are off to a great start in reaching the goals weve set for our company, Grant will say.  As farmers experience the superior performance and profitability on their farms were confident they will be compelled to upgrade to our latest technology.  And this technology upgrade will drive the mix improvement we expect to help us reach our 2012 objectives.
Grant will highlight the yield results for Genuity SmartStax corn and Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans, which indicate:
 
 
 
Monsantos 2009 trials versus competitor triple stacks, and those results should improve under more typical growing conditions.  This indicates that farmers have the opportunity to realize a positive revenue advantage of $60 or more per acre versus competitors from this total package of benefits.
 
Earnings Guidance
Grant also will reaffirm the companys full-year 2010 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance is in the range of $3.10 to $3.30.  Grant will say the company continues to expect a small loss in the first-quarter ongoing EPS in the range of $(0.05) or better. Monsanto expects first-quarter EPS on an as-reported basis to be in the range of $(0.07) or better and full-year 2010 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is in the range of $2.85 to $3.11.  (For a reconciliation of 2010 and first quarter EPS, see note 1.)
For the first quarter, the company confirmed free cash flow guidance to be a use of cash on the order of $1.8 billion, primarily reflecting the year-over-year decrease in the glyphosate business.  Additionally, the first-quarter cash flow comparison to last year is expected to be affected by a shift in timing of working capital use, reflecting in part a shift in timing of some customer prepayments, as well as a one-time benefit to cash in fiscal year 2009 from the divestiture of Monsantos dairy business.
Net cash required by operating activities is expected to be in the range of $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion and net cash required by investing activities is expected to be in the range of $100 million to $300 million in the first quarter.  The company expects free cash flow for fiscal year 2010 will be in the range of $900 million to $1 billion, including the after-tax cash effect from a restructuring of approximately $250 million.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $2 billion to $2.2 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion for fiscal year 2010.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
A live webcast of Grants presentation is available through Monsantos web site at:  .  Following todays live broadcast set for 10:40 a.m. C.T., a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.  To access presentation slides and the simultaneous audio webcast of the presentation, visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.
http://www.monsanto.com/investors
About Monsanto Company
 
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both
 
 
 
 
small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at   on Facebook at  , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.facebook.com/MonsantoCo
News Release RSS Feed
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Monsanto and the vine Design, Genuity, SmartStax, Roundup Ready and Roundup Ready 2 Yield are trademarks owned by Monsanto Technology LLC. SmartStax multi-event technology developed by Monsanto and Dow AgroSciences.
 
 
 
 
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
 
 
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows.  With respect to the fiscal year and first quarter 2010 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 


