FILE:MON/MON-8K-20090107082647.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 7, 2009, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter fiscal year 2009 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2008. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-K.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated January 7, 2009, issued by Monsanto Company
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 7, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
MONSANTO INCREASES FULL-YEAR ONGOING EARNINGS-PER-SHARE GUIDANCE AFTER REPORTING 117% EARNINGS GROWTH IN FIRST QUARTER OF FISCAL 2009
 Greater demand in Latin America for Monsanto Companys (NYSE: MON) products propelled the company to record-setting net sales and net income results for its fiscal 2009 first quarter, which ended Nov. 30, 2008.
ST. LOUIS, Jan. 7, 2009
In connection with these results, the company announced that it is raising full-year earnings-per-share (EPS) guidance from a range of $4.20 to $4.40 to a range of $4.40 to $4.50 on an ongoing basis. As discussed further in Note 1, at this time the company is not able to provide a reconciliation to reported EPS guidance for fiscal year 2009.
 
 
 
The ongoing demand from farmers for our world-class technologies has allowed us to deliver such strong earnings growth while staying fully invested in our research and development pipeline, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer for Monsanto. Our Latin American business once again displayed its strength and set the pace for a great fiscal 2009, giving us confidence to raise our earnings projections and helping us take another solid step toward fulfilling our 2012 gross profit commitments. And with the latest progress of our research and development pipeline, we look forward to having additional opportunities to earn farmers business by unlocking more yield power from their crops.
Results of Operations
The company reported net sales of $2.6 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, a 29 percent increase compared to the first quarter of fiscal 2008. Strong demand in Brazil for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides led the increase in Monsantos first-quarter sales, followed by higher corn seed and trait sales in the United States and Brazil, and higher sales growth in soybean seeds and traits in the United States from strong early-season deliveries.
Monsanto recorded net income of $556 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, a 117 percent increase compared with net income of $256 million for the same period last year. Earnings per share (EPS)for the quarter were $1.00 on an as-reported basis and $0.98 on an ongoing basis, compared to year-ago EPS of $0.46 on an as-reported basis and $0.45 on an ongoing basis.  The quarters results included $44 million, or $0.08 per share, in discrete tax items.
 
The first quarter of Monsantos fiscal year typically and primarily reflects the impact of its Latin American businesses. The second and third quarters are expected to be the primary drivers for the companys full-year results, as they largely reflect both the relative size of the companys U.S. business and the importance of its seeds-and-traits business to Monsantos earnings.
Cash Flow
For the first quarter of fiscal 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $114 million, compared with $996 million in the first quarter last year. Net cash provided by investing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2009 was $10 million, compared with $256 million required for the year-ago quarter, as proceeds received from the sale of our dairy business were partially offset by capital expenditures. As a result, free cash flow was $124 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, compared with $740 million for the first quarter in fiscal 2008. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.) The decrease in the three-month comparison related mainly to a decrease in customer pre-payments in the United States due to the late corn harvest which resulted in delayed corn seed and trait orders. Net cash required by financing activities was $258 million for the first quarter of fiscal 2009, compared with $47 million for the same period in fiscal 2008.
Update to Cash Flow Guidance
Monsanto also now expects its free cash to be slightly above $1.8 billion for fiscal 2009, underscoring the companys ability to grow yet maintain its financial discipline.
 
The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be in the range of $3.0 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.2 billion for fiscal 2009. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
 
 
-3-
 
of the companys global seeds and related traits business, and biotechnology platforms.
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 increased 31 percent ($263 million) compared to the same period last year.
Corn seed and traits net sales increased 34 percent ($161 million) to lead the overall growth in the segment for the quarter. Along with higher selling prices in the United States for corn seeds and traits, these sales increases were largely driven by the successful launches of the YieldGard Corn Borer trait technology in Brazil and the double-trait offering of YieldGard Corn Borer and Roundup Ready Corn 2 in Argentina.  The company expects to sell 1.5 million to 2 million acres of YieldGard Corn Borer in Brazil this year, and has sold more than 2 million acres of YieldGard Corn Borer and Roundup Ready Corn 2 in Argentina.
Specific to Monsantos U.S. corn business sales, the company anticipates triple-trait offerings through its DEKALB and American Seeds (ASI) brands to represent approximately 70 percent of their trait volume this year. The triple-trait technology offers farmers both above-the-ground and below-the-ground insect protection, as well as weed control flexibility.  The company is forecasting that its triple-trait product could be planted on 34 million to 35 million acres in the United States, an increase of roughly 17 percent to 21 percent from last year.
Soybean seed and traits net sales posted a 31 percent ($50 million) increase versus the year-ago quarter due mainly to higher U.S. sales stemming from strong early-season deliveries of its Asgrow brand.
 
Vegetable seeds net sales grew by 21 percent ($27 million), largely reflecting the addition of De Ruiter Seeds, which the company acquired in June 2008.  De Ruiter is a leading protected-culture vegetable seeds business based in the Netherlands.
 
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2009 for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment grew 28 percent ($337 million) compared with the same period last year. The segments growth largely resulted from higher net selling prices and higher sales volumes of the companys Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides in Brazil along with higher net selling prices in all major world areas.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of projects within the companys R&D pipeline, including the phase progression of four existing projects and the inclusion of two new projects. The call may also include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information. Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .
www.monsanto.com
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on
 
 
 
factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: DEKALB, Asgrow, YieldGard, Roundup and Roundup Ready are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup-branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2009 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


