FILE:MON/MON-8K-20090813162626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02                                Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 11, 2009, Monsanto Companys Board of Directors elected Carl M. Casale as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective September 1, 2009.  Mr. Casale, age 48, will succeed Terrell K. Crews, who notified the Company of his intention to step down as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Vegetable Business CEO effective as of  the close of business on August 31, 2009.  Mr. Crews will serve as Special Assistant to the CEO through November 30, 2009.
Mr. Casale has served as Executive Vice President, Strategy and Operations for the Company since October 2007.  He previously served as Executive Vice President, North America Commercial since June 2003.  Information regarding Mr. Casales compensation arrangements are set forth in the Companys most recent proxy statement dated December 1, 2008.
A press release announcing the retirement of Mr. Crews and the appointment of Mr. Casale, as described above, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
ITEM 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99                                Press Release dated August 12, 2009
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 13, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
MONSANTO EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER TERRY CREWS TO RETIRE
Carl Casale, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Operations, To Succeed Crews as CFO
(August 12, 2009) -- Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today that Terry Crews, 53, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will retire from the Company effective Nov. 30, 2009. Carl Casale, 48, currently Executive Vice President of Strategy and Operations, has been named as Crews successor effective Sept. 1, 2009.  Crews will serve as Special Assistant to the CEO through Nov. 30, 2009.
ST. LOUIS
Terry Crews personifies the talent, drive and passion that made Monsantos transition to the worlds leading agricultural seeds and traits enterprise the success it is today, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer.  His achievements have not only won him the gratitude of our employees and shareholders, but also recognition as a highly-regarded business leader within our organization as well as the business and investment community.  While we respect and understand his personal desire to spend more time with his family, hell be greatly missed.
Im very proud to have been a part of the spectacular success of Monsanto, Crews added. This company has a bright future with strong investments in places that can make a difference for farmers, our people and our shareowners. After careful consideration with my family, Ive decided this is the right time to cap my long career and ensure a successful transition as the company embarks on its next decade of innovation. 
During his 32-year career, Crews led Monsanto through several unique transitions including Monsantos integration of its first seed company investments in the 1990s, its original initial public offering and ultimate spinoff earlier this decade, as well as the companys settlement proceedings with Solutia last year. Crews financial discipline is credited with supporting Monsanto in its historic annual earnings growth path of 20 percent which enabled the St. Louis-based company to return value to its shareowners, invest in new innovations for farmers as well as support a number of acquisitions over the years including Delta and Pine Land, Seminis and De Ruiter Seeds.
Casale Named Next Chief Financial Officer
On behalf of Monsantos Board of Directors and all of our employees, Im pleased to announce that Carl Casale will assume the role of Chief Financial Officer for Monsanto, said Grant. Carls leadership in our commercial organizations coupled with his track-record of economic, financial and operational excellence makes him a strong leader for our financial organization.
Casale joined former Monsanto Company in 1984. During his 25-year tenure with Monsanto, Casale led the companys commercial organization. He also spearheaded several key strategic initiatives for the company including litigation resolution efforts with major competitors, the establishment of American Seeds, the SmartStax collaboration with Dow AgroSciences, and the acquisition of Cristiani Burkhard.  Most recently, Casale led strategy and operations for the company. In this role, he oversaw Monsantos strategy, manufacturing and information technology organizations.
TM
Casale holds a B.S. degree in agricultural economics from Oregon State University and a M.B.A. from Washington University. He grew up on a family farm in Oregon, which still operates today, and began his career as a sales representative in Walla Walla, Washington. Casale maintains his hands-on involvement with farming to this day and runs his own commercial farming operation in his spare time.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit .
http://www.monsanto.com
NOTE TO EDITORS: SmartStax multi-event technology developed by Dow AgroSciences and Monsanto.
SmartStax is a trademarks of Monsanto Technology LLC.
 
 
 


