FILE:MON/MON-8K-20090420165443.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02                                Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On April 14, 2009, Monsanto Companys Board of Directors elected David L. Chicoine, Ph.D. to the Board of Directors and appointed Dr. Chicoine to its Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee and its Science and Technology Committee.  In addition, the Board determined that Dr. Chicoine is independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards and the categorical independence standards of the Board of Directors Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Dr. Chicoine is the President of South Dakota State University (SDSU), which he joined in 2007.  He is also a nationally recognized economist, specializing in public finance, taxation and rural economies.
Dr. Chicoine will be entitled to receive the same compensation for service as a director as is provided to other directors of the Company under the Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan). Under the Plan, each non-employee director receives an annual base retainer having a value of $195,000.  Additional annual retainers are paid as follows: (i) $25,000 to each of the chair of the Audit and Finance Committee, the chair of the People and Compensation Committee and the chair of the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee; (ii) $15,000 to each of the chair of the Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Science and Technology Committee; and (iii) $10,000 to each member of the Audit and Finance Committee (other than the chair of that Committee).  Half of the aggregate retainer for each director is payable in deferred common stock, and the remainder is payable, at the election of each director, in the form of restricted common stock, deferred common stock, current cash and/or deferred cash.  The Plan also provides that each non-employee director will receive a grant of restricted stock upon commencement of service as a member of the Board of Directors equal to the annual base retainer divided by the closing price of a share of the Companys common stock on the commencement date.
 
In the ordinary course of its business, the Company has engaged in certain transactions with SDSU that were, or may be, related person transactions with respect to Dr. Chicoine.  These transactions included payments by the Company to SDSU for services (of which approximately $48,000 was paid during fiscal year 2008 and approximately $6,000 has been paid during fiscal year 2009 to-date), and payments by SDSU to the Company, for licenses, services and goods (of which approximately $203,000 was paid during fiscal year 2008 and approximately $13,000 has been paid during fiscal year 2009 to-date), as well as research grants by the Company to SDSU (of which approximately $145,000 was donated during fiscal 2008 and approximately $222,000 was donated during fiscal year 2009 to-date).  
A press release announcing the appointment of Dr. Chicoine as a director, as described above, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01                                Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99                                Press Release dated April 15, 2009
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 20, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
Monsanto Adds David L. Chicoine to Board of Directors
ST. LOUIS (April 15, 2009)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today the appointment of David L. Chicoine, Ph. D., to the companys Board of Directors.  Dr. Chicoine is currently president of South Dakota State University (SDSU) in Brookings, South Dakota.  Dr. Chicoine is also a nationally recognized economist, specializing in public finance, taxation and rural economies.
Prior to joining SDSU in 2007, Dr. Chicoine held various positions of increasing responsibility with the University of Illinois, most recently as Vice President for Technology and Economic Development.  His higher education administrative experience at the University of Illinois also includes service as Head of the Department of Agricultural Economics and Dean of the College of Agriculture, Consumer and Environmental Sciences at the Urbana-Champaign campus.
On behalf of Monsanto, I am pleased to announce the appointment of David Chicoine as an independent director to our Board, said Hugh Grant, Chairman of the Board, Monsanto Company.  David has more than 30 years experience in higher education and is a recognized agricultural economist.  We believe his background and insight will serve Monsanto shareowners well by bringing another valuable perspective to our business and our Board.
Dr. Chicoines appointment is effective immediately, and he will stand for election to the Board at the 2010 annual meeting of shareowners.  Dr. Chicoine will serve on the following board committees: Public Policy and Corporate Responsibility, and Science and Technology.
The addition of Dr. Chicoine to Monsantos board brings the number of directors to 11, with 10 independent directors. Additional information on Dr. Chicoine can be accessed at SDSUs website at . Additional information on Monsantos Board of Directors can be accessed at .
http://www3.sdstate.edu/SDSU/PresidentsWelcome.cfm
www.monsanto.com/directors
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large- scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: http://www.monsanto.com/.
 
 
 


