FILE:MON/MON-8K-20101210143128.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 6, 2010, Monsanto Companys Board of Directors elected Laura K. Ipsen to the Board of Directors and appointed Ms. Ipsen to its Science and Technology Committee and its Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee.  Ms. Ipsen was elected to the class of directors whose terms expire at the Companys 2011 annual meeting of shareowners.  In addition, the Board determined that Ms. Ipsen is independent under the New York Stock Exchange Listing Standards and the categorical independence standards of the Board of Directors Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Ms. Ipsen is the Senior Vice President and General Manager, Connected Energy Industries for Cisco Systems, Inc., a manufacturer of Internet Protocol based networking products.
Ms. Ipsen will be entitled to receive the same compensation for service as a director as is provided to other directors of the Company under the Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan), which is described in more detail in the Proxy Statement for our 2011 annual meeting.  Under the Plan, Ms. Ipsen will receive an annual base retainer having a value of $195,000, which will be pro-rated for fiscal 2011 to reflect nine months of service.  Half of the aggregate retainer is payable in deferred common stock, and the remainder is payable, at the election of each director, in the form of restricted common stock, deferred common stock, current cash and/or deferred cash.  Pursuant to the Plan Ms. Ipsen was also provided a grant o f restricted stock upon commencement of service as a member of the Board of Directors equal to the full annual base retainer divided by the closing price of a share of the Companys common stock on the commencement date, which amounted to 3,120 shares of restricted common stock.
 
A press release announcing the election of Ms. Ipsen as a director, as described above, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
2
 
ITEM 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release dated December 6, 2010
 
3
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  December 10, 2010
 
4
 
 
 
 
5
 

 
 
 
MONSANTO COMPANY ADDS LAURA K. IPSEN TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS, DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
ST. LOUIS (Dec. 6, 2010)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today the appointment of Laura K. Ipsen to the companys Board of Directors.  Ipsen is currently the senior vice president and general manager, Connected Energy Industries, for Cisco, the worldwide leader in networking technology that transforms how people connect, communicate and collaborate, based in San Jose, Calif.  Since joining the company in 1995, Ipsen founded and led Ciscos global policy and government affairs organization.  In addition to her current role managing Ciscos strategy in helping transform the energy and water industries, she is the co-chair of Ciscos EcoBoard, which defines and drives the companys global environmental strategy, including how to use information technology to achieve a positive impac t on the environment and climate change.
Prior to Cisco, she worked in government affairs and international trade for Hitachi Data Systems, Acer Corporation and Pricewaterhousecoopers LLP.
On behalf of Monsanto, I am pleased to announce the appointment of Laura Ipsen as an independent director to our Board, said Hugh Grant, Monsantos chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.  Lauras experience will enable her to provide valuable insight to our board on a variety of matters, including information technology and key legislative and regulatory issues facing our global technology business, as well as strategic oversight of our sustainability efforts.
Ipsens appointment is effective immediately, and she will stand for election to the Board at the 2011 annual meeting of shareowners.  Ipsen will serve on the Science and Technology Committee and the Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The addition of Ipsen to Monsantos board brings the number of directors to 12, with 11 independent directors. Additional information about Ipsen is available on Ciscos website at .  Additional information on Monsantos Board of Directors can be accessed at .
http://newsroom.cisco.com/dlls/execs/ipsen-laura.html
www.monsanto.com/directors
The company also announced the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend on its common stock of 28 cents per share. The dividend relates to the companys first quarter of its 2011 fiscal year. The dividend is payable on Jan. 28, 2011 to shareowners of record on Jan. 7, 2011.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our worlds natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our News Release RSS Feed.
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com


