FILE:MON/MON-8K-20101122175435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
MONSANTO COMPANY
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
Delaware                                001-16167                               43-1878297
       State of Incorporation)                   (Commission File Number)                 (IRS Employer Identification No.)
(
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
[   ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[   ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[   ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13a-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
ITEM 5.02     Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
On November 19, 2010, Carl Casale, executive vice president and chief financial officer of Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON), notified Monsanto that he plans to leave his position effective December 31, 2010, to become president and chief executive officer of CHS Inc. (NASDAQ: CHSCP), a Fortune 100 diversified energy, grains and foods company.  A press release announcing the foregoing is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
ITEM 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
Exhibit 99                     Press Release, dated November 22, 2010
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
MONSANTO COMPANY
 
Dated:  November 22, 2010                             By: 
 /s/ Jennifer L. Woods                   
Name:  Jennifer L. Woods
Title:    Assistant Secretary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
ST. LOUIS
(Nov. 22, 2010)  Monsanto Company (NYSE:MON) today announced that Carl Casale, executive vice president and chief financial officer, plans to leave his position effective December 31, 2010, to become president and chief executive officer of CHS Inc. (NASDAQ: CHSCP), a Fortune 100 diversified energy, grains and foods company.    
Casale will work through the remainder of the year to ensure a smooth transition of his responsibilities to his successor, whom the company expects to identify during this period.  Casale will begin his position at CHS Inc. on January 1, 2011.
"We will miss Carl, who served in increasingly important roles during his long career with Monsanto, but we understand the strong attraction of the opportunity that awaits him," said Hugh Grant, Monsanto chairman and chief executive officer. "On behalf of the board, the management team and all Monsanto employees, we would like to thank Carl for his many contributions and wish him all the best in his new role."
"I'm incredibly honored to have had the opportunity to work at Monsanto Company," Casale said. "This company is the demonstrated leader in seeds and traits, and I continue to believe that it has a very strong future. The opportunity to join CHS Inc. provides a compelling opportunity for me and my family. I'm pleased to join CHS and work to chart the future of their diversified business."
Casale, 49, joined the original Monsanto Company in 1984. During his 26-year career at the company, Casale has held a number of progressively senior positions.  More recently, Casale oversaw Monsanto's strategy, manufacturing and information technology organizations, and was named chief financial officer on September 1, 2009.  In particular, in his role as CFO, Casale made important contributions in providing the strategic direction and leadership that has established the course for Monsanto's growth opportunity in 2011 and beyond.
 
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.
To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: www.monsanto.comor subscribe to our News Release RSS Feed.
. Follow our business on Twitter at
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
, on Facebook at
www.facebook.com/MonsantoCo
,


