FILE:MON/MON-8K-20101006090256.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 6, 2010, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter fiscal year 2010 financial and operating results for the period ended August 31, 2010.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  ; This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated October 6, 2010, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 6, 2010
 
3
 

  ________________________
 
 
MONSANTO COMPLETES FISCAL YEAR 2010 IN LINE WITH LATEST GUIDANCE
Cash Flow Beats Estimate; EPS is $2.41 on Ongoing Basis ($2.01 As Reported)
St. Louis  Oct. 6, 2010
   ____________________________
    Restructuring Charges consist of $361 million in operating expenses and $45 million in cost of goods sold for FY09 and $210
1
million in operating expenses and $114 million in cost of goods sold for FY10. 
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
 
 
 
Comment from Monsanto Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Hugh Grant:
Our job is to help farmers be more profitable and more productive.  When we do that, future business opportunity follows.  What we do best is discover, develop and deliver products that matter to farmers.  Were backing new innovation with actions ranging from expanding launches of product offerings to our revamped pricing approach.  On the heels of fiscal year 2010 and with this years harvest ongoing, theres no doubt that were looking forward to seeing the result of expanding product choices and the changes that weve made take hold in a new fiscal year.  We believe in the opportunity of fiscal year 2011 as the launch point for mid-teens earnings growth.
Operations Update
Monsanto reported net sales of $1.95 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, a 4 percent increase over the same period in fiscal year 2009.
The seeds and genomics segment represented more than 70 percent of the companys net sales for the year, which helped to offset the lower sales for the agricultural productivity segment.  Net sales for seeds and genomics increased 4 percent, boosted by higher corn and cotton revenues in the United States.  Pricing actions for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides had a significant effect on overall net sales and gross profit.  Net sales for the company decreased 10 percent in fiscal year 2010 to $10.5 billion as a result of a 35 percent decline in net sales for the agricultural productivity segment.  Gross profit increased 1 percent for the quarter as compared to the prior year period, reaching $861 mi llion for the quarter and $5.1 billion for the year.
Monsanto reported a net loss of $143 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 compared with a net loss of $233 million in the same period last year.  Net income for fiscal year 2010 was $1.1 billion, a decline from last years net income of $2.1 billion.
The companys fiscal year 2010 earnings per share (EPS) was $2.41 on an ongoing basis ($2.01 on an as-reported basis).  For the fourth quarter, the company reported a loss per share of $(0.09) on an ongoing basis (and $(0.26) on an as-reported basis).  As-reported EPS results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2010 reflect the effects of restructuring and discontinued operations.  (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
Cash Flow
For fiscal year 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $1.4 billion, down from $2.2 billion the prior year.  Net cash required by investing activities was $834 million in fiscal year 2010, compared with net cash required of $723 million for the prior year. As a result, free cash flow was a source of $564 million for fiscal year 2010, compared with a source of $1.5 billion in fiscal year 2009. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)  Net cash required by financing activities was more than $1 billion for fiscal year 2010, even with last years requirement of $1 billion.
Outlook
In fiscal year 2011, Monsanto expects 13 to 17 percent earnings growth off the $2.41 ongoing EPS base for a range of $2.72 to $2.82 EPS on an ongoing basis and $2.67 to $2.77 on an as-reported basis.  (For a reconciliation of 2011 EPS guidance, see note 1.)  The company projects free cash flow in the range of $800 million to $900 million, which reflects an investment of $600 to $700 million in capital expenditures.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion, and net 
 
2
 
cash required by investing activities to be approximately $900 million to $1 billion for fiscal year 2011.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
The seeds and genomics segment, which will account for the bulk of Monsantos business in fiscal year 2011 and beyond, is expected to deliver both single digit unit volume growth and mix improvement.  The company expects global seed-and-trait unit volume growth in the single digits in 2011, with a mix benefit primarily driven by the U.S. corn product strategy, the expanded availability of Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans and the corn market in Latin America.
In Latin America, the company sees opportunity in both Brazil as more traits become available, and Argentina, where there has been an uptick in acreage as more growers move to double stacks.
In the United States, the company has newly positioned Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans to promote broader adoption and expects the on-farm experience base to increase from the six million acres planted in 2010 to mid-teens millions of acres in 2011.  In corn, the company will execute on its plan to offer farmers more choices of products at more price points and expects to earn the farmers business on mid-teens millions of acres total for Genuity SmartStax, Genuity VT Triple PRO and Gen uity VT Double PRO in 2011.  Together, the upcoming years choices, which encompass trait upgrade potential and the continued enhancement of improved germplasm in Monsanto products, are expected to increase both corn gross profit and unit volume growth.
TM
TM
The company also expects steady growth in cotton and vegetables at a global level.  In cotton, Monsanto will continue to upgrade its germplasm mix improvement and promote penetration of second generation stacked traits in the United States and move to second-generation traits in India.
The stabilized agricultural productivity segment is expected to deliver gross profit in the range of $550 million to $600 million in fiscal year 2011, reflecting the steady-state guidance for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides as the company expects to sell between 250 million and 300 million gallons at an average gross profit contribution of $1 per gallon.
With the savings realized as part of Monsantos restructuring actions, the company expects 2011 selling, general and administrative expenses to be a flat to inflationary increase over the 2010 base of $2.06 billion, representing a range of $2.06 billion to $2.16 billion.  In 2011, the company projects a research and development spend of $1.25 billion to $1.3 billion as it continues to manage more products in the later phases of development.
 
3
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business, and genetic technology platforms.
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment were $970 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, an increase of 7 percent over the same period last year.  This was driven by an increase in trait revenues for the companys core crops, trait penetration in Latin America and the increase in cotton acres in the United States.
With the Seeds and Genomics segment driving the companys growth, Monsanto realized record segment sales of $7.6 billion for the fiscal year 2010, representing a 4 percent increase over the prior fiscal year.
The year also marked significant product launches for the company, as farmers chose to conduct on-farm trials of Genuity SmartStax corn and Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans.  Its early in the soybean harvest, and while corn harvest has run slightly ahead this year, there is not yet projectable data in all markets and Monsanto will release a final update on yield in November.
Harvest is just beginning in the core Corn Belt and full data will be provided upon completion.  The company shared some highlights of what the nations corn harvest has shown to date:
The company continues to provide regular harvest updates on its corn and soybean portfolio on its website at .
www.monsanto.com/productperformance
  Acquisition of Aly Participacoes Ltda. in fiscal year 2009.
2
4
 
 
 
The Agricultural Productivity segment consists of crop protection products and the lawn-and-garden herbicide business.
Sales for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment were $983 million in the quarter, a slight increase over the prior year driven by the aggressive pricing actions Monsanto implemented for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides.  The decreased price was offset by increased volumes in most markets.  Sales for the segment were $2.9 billion for fiscal year 2010, a 35 percent decrease over the prior year due to the supply and demand imbalance in the global glyphosate industry.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results and future expectations.  The call may also include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at .  Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com/investor/
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on Facebook at , or subscribe to our
http://www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.facebook.com/MonsantoCo
Ne ws Release RSS Feed
.
 
 
 
 
 
-oOo-
 
 
5
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are forward-looking statements, such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to in tellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the companys estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent reports on Forms 10-Q and 10-K. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any c urrent intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Monsanto and the Vine design, Genuity, SmartStax, Roundup Ready 2 Yield, VT Double PRO and VT Triple PRO are trademarks owned by Monsanto Technology LLC.
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
 
10
 
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2011 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:


