FILE:MON/MON-8K-20101223112541.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
                      
Item 5.02
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 22, 2010, the Board of Directors of Monsanto Company (the Company) elected Pierre Courduroux, age 45, as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, effective January 1, 2011.  Mr. Courduroux will serve as the Companys principal financial officer.
Mr. Courduroux previously served as Global Business Finance Lead for the Company since December 2009.  Prior to that, from October 2007 to December 2009, he served as Chief Financial Officer of the Companys Vegetable Seeds business.  From September 2004 to October 2007, Mr. Courduroux served as Finance Director for the Europe/Africa region of our business.
Effective January 1, 2011, Mr. Courduroux will receive the following changes to his compensation:  (i) his annualized base pay will be increased to $425,000; (ii) his Annual Incentive Plan target opportunity level will be increased to 70% of base pay (as in effect on August 31, 2011); and (iii) his annualized long-term incentive award value will be increased to $1,000,000.  In accordance with the increase in Mr. Courdurouxs long-term incentive award value, effective January 1, 2011, Mr. Courduroux will receive a grant of stock options and financial goal restricted stock units with an aggregate value equal to the difference between his current annualized long-term incentive award value and the new annualized long-term incentive award value, pro-rated for the remaining eight months of the Companys fiscal 2 011.
Mr. Courduroux may also participate in other compensation and benefits programs generally available to our executive officers and receive perquisites generally available to our executive officers.  More information regarding these matters may be found in the Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which we filed on December 10, 2010.
ITEM 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  December 23, 2010
 
 
3

 
 
MONSANTO COMPANY NAMES PIERRE COURDUROUX SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
20-Year Company Veteran to Assume Position on January 1, 2011
 The Board of Directors of Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced that Pierre Courduroux, 45, will be appointed as the companys new Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective on Jan. 1, 2011.  Courduroux currently serves as Monsantos finance lead for its global business operations.
ST. LOUIS (Dec. 22, 2010)
For more than 20 years, Pierre has been a valuable asset to Monsanto and our finance organization, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Monsanto.  Pierre understands our business, has proven financial expertise, and applies that to executing on our strategic vision.  His leadership will provide a key anchor as Monsanto focuses on the operational implementation that will drive the growth in this company over the long term.
A native of Clermont-Ferrand, France, Courduroux joined the former Monsanto Company in 1990.  During his career, Courduroux has served in a variety of leadership positions throughout Monsantos finance organization and across its global operating businesses.
It was clear to me and the Board that of all of the candidates, Pierres financial skill and leadership capability was the right combination for our business, said Grant. Monsanto will benefit from his global business experience and financial insight.
Courduroux recently assumed responsibility for the global finance organization across the companys crop protection and seeds-and-traits divisions. In this role, he also was responsible for establishing processes in conjunction with the controllers function, treasury, tax, Sarbanes-Oxley compliance, risk management and investment decisions for the worlds leading agriculture business.
Prior to this role, he served as the Chief Financial Officer for Monsantos global vegetable business, where he was instrumental in the acquisition of the De Ruiter Seeds business. He also has served in senior finance positions within the areas of corporate strategy, corporate planning, controllership, as well as business operations in Europe and Africa.
Courduroux holds a business degree with a major in finance from the Ecole Suprieure de Commerce de Lyon, which is located in Lyon, France. He also holds an Executive Masters of Business Administration from Washington University in St. Louis.  Courduroux and his family live in St. Louis.
 
 
 
 
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscrib e to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
Note to Editors:  Please visit   for a bio and photo.
http://www.monsanto.com/whoweare/Pages/Pierre-Courduroux-bio.aspx


