FILE:MON/MON-8K-20101222110212.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On December 20, 2010, Frank V. AtLee III resigned from the Monsanto Company Board of Directors.  Mr. AtLee has not advised the Company of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to its operations, policies or practices.  A press release regarding this matter is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
 
ITEM 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release dated December 21, 2010
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  December 22, 2010
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99
 
 
MONSANTO ANNOUNCES DEPARTURE OF FRANK V. ATLEE III FROM BOARD OF DIRECTORS
 Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today that Frank V. AtLee III has resigned from the companys Board of Directors.
ST. LOUIS (Dec. 21, 2010)
 
We thank Frank AtLee for his leadership, insight and many contributions over the years to the board and our company, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Monsanto. On behalf of the board and all of us at Monsanto, we extend to Frank our sincere gratitude and best wishes.
 
Mr. AtLee served on Monsantos board for more than 10 years.  He served as chairman of the board and chair of the Executive Committee from June 2000 to October 2003.  He was Monsantos interim president and chief executive officer from December 2002 to May 2003. 
 
After careful consideration, I feel the time is right for me to step down from Monsantos board, AtLee said.  Ive enjoyed working with Monsantos board of directors and management team and being part of the companys tremendous growth over the last decade.  I am confident Monsanto will continue to deliver significant benefits to farmers and value to its shareowners.
 
He is a retired president of the former American Cyanamid Company and chairman of the former Cyanamid International.  Both companies were involved in the discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing of medical and agricultural products. 
 
About Monsanto Company
 
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscrib e to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 


