FILE:MON/MON-8K-20100106082638.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 6, 2010, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter fiscal year 2010 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2009. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-K.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated January 6, 2010, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 6, 2010
 
3
 
 
 
 

 
 Monsanto Company
   
   
   
   
 800 North Lindbergh Blvd
   
   
   
   
 St. Louis, Missouri 63167
   
   
   
   
MONSANTO DELIVERS ON Q1 GUIDANCE, CONFIRMS FULL-YEAR EARNINGS PER
SHARE AND CASH FLOW TARGETS
Company Advances 11 Projects With Record-Breaking R&D Pipeline Update
 Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) has delivered on its financial targets for the first quarter of 2010, which ended Nov. 30, 2009, and recommitted to its full-year guidance.  With its quarterly earnings results today the company also announced its annual research and development pipeline update, showcasing a record-breaking 11 phase advancements.
ST. LOUIS, Jan. 6, 2010
Early indicators of the seeds and traits business show the company on track to meet its 2010 financial commitments and with its operational plan through 2011 and 2012.
 
 
 
Our first quarter is a small but important quarter as it sets the foundation for the year ahead, which we see as a critical year in propelling us to reach our 2011 and 2012 commitments, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer for Monsanto.  Weve delivered on our targets for the quarter and this year we are confident that we will achieve the milestones necessary to reach our financial commitment to our shareowners.  Today, we also take a closer look at our R&D pipeline and bring 11 new technologies that will deliver real value to farmers closer to the field.  With our selling season well underway and the demand we see for Genuity SmartStax corn and Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans, we believe it will only get better from here.  These winning products are the platform for many of the technologies in early phases in our pipeline, and were closer to demonstrating what those new technologies can do on the farm.
TM
TM
TM
Results of Operations
Net sales decreased $952 million, or 36 percent, in the three-month comparison primarily as a result of decreased sales of glyphosate-based herbicides, primarily in Brazil and Europe.  Gross profit percentage for the total company decreased 15 percentage points to 44 percent in the first quarter, largely driven by pricing adjustments for Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides.
Operating expenses decreased 3 percent, or $25 million, in the first quarter 2010 compared to the prior year. In the three-month comparison, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased 10 percent primarily because of lower spending for marketing, administrative functions and incentives.  R&D expenses increased 6 percent related to the increase in the companys investment in its product pipeline as it manages more projects in advanced pipeline phases.  As a percent of net sales, SG&A expenses were 29 percent and R&D expenses increased to 16 percent.
Net income in the first quarter was a loss of $0.03 per share, compared with income of $1.00 per share in first quarter 2009.
Cash Flow
For the first quarter of fiscal 2010, net cash required by operating activities was $1.4 billion, compared to a source of $114 million in the first quarter last year.  Net cash required by investing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2010 was $197 million, compared with a source of $10 million for the year-ago quarter.  Net cash provided by financing activities for the first quarter of 2010 was $113 million, compared to net cash required of $258 million for the prior years first quarter.
Free cash flow was a use of $1.6 billion for the first quarter of fiscal 2010, compared to a source of $124 million for the first quarter in fiscal 2009.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)  The reset of the Roundup business accounted for roughly 30 percent of this shift, and some working capital changes that altered the timing of cash flow in the quarter accounted for approximately half.  The working capital changes are primarily driven by a timing adjustment for payments from seed licenses, which traditionally had been collected in the first quarter and are now collected in the fourth quarter.  The remaining balance in fiscal 2009 came from the proceeds from the divestiture of the dairy business, which was $300 million.
Outlook
The company affirmed its previously announced cash flow guidance.  The company expects free cash flow for fiscal year 2010 will be in the range of $900 million to $1 billion, including the after-tax cash effect from a restructuring charge of approximately $250 million.  The company expects net cash provided by
 
 
 
operating activities to be $2 billion to $2.2 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion for fiscal year 2010.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
The company confirmed full-year 2010 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance is in the range of $3.10 to $3.30.  Full-year 2010 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is in the range of $2.85 to $3.11.  (For a reconciliation of EPS, see note 1.)
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business, and biotechnology platforms.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 decreased 6 percent or $68 million compared to the same period last year.
Corn seed and traits net sales decreased 9 percent or $59 million due in large part to a decrease in planted acres in Brazil and Argentina as a result of drought, governmental policies and commodity prices. 
With the second season still ahead in Brazil, there may be some rebound in total acres, but all-in planted acres are expected to be down for the year in both Brazil and Argentina.
This year marks the launch of Genuity SmartStax corn, which is expected to be on more than 4 million acres.  Given the early orders, the early-adopter uptake for Genuity SmartStax has been good and the company is on pace to meet the more than 4 million-acre target.
Overall, soybean gross profit is down 4 percent compared with last year, with relatively flat margins, due to a timing effect.  Delays in harvesting last years soybean crop have put the companys seed shipments slightly behind, with this volume expected to shift into the second quarter.  The company previously increased its acre targets for Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield to 8 million to 10 million acres, and sales to date are on pace to meet that target.
The vegetable business performed well, with sales growing $16 million or 10 percent, driven in part by better product availability.
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2010 for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment declined 57 percent or $884 million compared with the same period last year.  Addressing the global supply-demand imbalance, the company continues to execute on its plan by resetting branded prices to bring premiums more in line with historical norms, increasing overall volumes and optimizing its low-cost production advantage.
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of projects within the companys R&D pipeline, including the record-breaking 11 phase advancements.  The call also may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information.  Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our worlds natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit:  .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on Facebook at , or subscribe to our
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.facebook.com/MonsantoCo
News Release RSS Feed
.
 
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Genuity, YieldGard, Roundup, Roundup Ready 2 Yield and SmartStax are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup-branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes.  Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
 
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release.  With respect to the fiscal year 2010 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
 
 


