FILE:MON/MON-8K-20110830153619.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
On Aug. 24, 2011, Monsanto Companys People and Compensation Committee (the Committee) approved the Monsanto Company Fiscal Year 2012 Annual Incentive Plan (the 2012 Plan).  The 2012 Plan covers the performance period Sept. 1, 2011 through Aug. 31, 2012.  Eligibility includes regular employees who do not participate in a local sales or business-specific annual incentive plan.  The 2012 Plan excludes from eligibility all employees employed in the U.S. who are members of a collective bargaining unit with whom incentive compensation was the subject of good faith bargaining.
Funding of the 2012 Plan is determined by the Companys attainment of certain financial goals related to sales (10% weighting), diluted earnings per share (50% weighting) and free cash flow (40% weighting) and the determination by the Committee that such attainment satisfies certain subjective performance criteria as determined by the Committee.  Various performance levels are approved by the Committee with a payout level (as a percentage of target award pool) associated with each level of performance as follows: (i) threshold, 35%, (ii) target, 100%, and (iii) outstanding, 200%.
The award pool will be funded at no less than 20% of target level funding in the event the Company pays dividends with respect to each of its financial quarters ending during the fiscal year.  However, if the Company fails to attain at least the threshold level of performance with respect to the diluted earnings per share goal, the incentive pool may not fund at greater than 20% of the target level of funding.  One or more of the financial goals may be funded at above the outstanding level, provided the overall incentive pool would be capped at 200% of target level unless the Committee determines in its discretion to fund above 200%.  Regardless of the attainment of any one or more of the 2012 Plans financial goals, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall determine whether the award pool should be funded and the amount of such funding, if any.
The 2012 Plan also contains provisions and exceptions relating to new hires, changes in base compensation, changes in employment status, including termination of employment, and other specific situations.
 
This summary description of the 2012 Plan does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 2012 Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10 hereto and incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)  Exhibits.  The following documents are filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 30, 2011
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 10
 
 
The Fiscal 2012 Annual Incentive Plan (the Plan) provides eligible employees the opportunity to earn cash awards for Company and individual performance during the Performance Period
: the Companys 2012 fiscal year - September 1, 2011 through
Performance Period
August 31, 2012 (the Performance Period).
:  All regular employees of Monsanto Company and its subsidiaries who do not participate in a sales or a business-specific annual incentive plan (each such employee, a Participant).
Eligibility
:
Performance Goals
:
General Provisions
 
:
Plan Funding
 
1
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
Events Affecting Payout of Individual Awards:
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
4
 
 
 
Sales
Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)
 
 
Cash Flow from Operating and Investing Activities
 
 
5


