FILE:MON/MON-8K-20110808153846.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions:
 
1
 
 
ITEM 5.02                      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On August 2, 2011, Monsanto Companys Board of Directors elected Jon R. Moeller to the Board of Directors and appointed Mr. Moeller to its Audit and Finance Committee and its Science and Technology Committee.  Mr. Moeller is the Chief Financial Officer of The Procter & Gamble Company.  Mr. Moeller was elected to the class of directors whose terms expire at the Companys 2013 annual meeting of shareowners.
 
     In addition, the Board determined that Mr. Moeller is independent under the listing standards of New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE") and the Board's Charter and Corporate Governance Guidelines, including the additional independence requirements that are applicable to members of the Audit and Finance Committee.  The Board also determined that Mr. Moeller meets the experience requirements set forth in the NYSE's listing standards and is an "audit committee financial expert" for purposes of the SEC's rules.
   
Mr. Moeller will be entitled to receive the same compensation for service as a director as is provided to other directors of the Company under the Non-Employee Director Equity Incentive Compensation Plan (the Plan).  The Plan was described in more detail in the Proxy Statement for our 2011 annual meeting.  Under the Plan, Mr. Moeller will receive an annual base retainer, which for fiscal 2011 will be pro-rated to one-twelfth of $195,000 to reflect one month of service.  Half of the aggregate retainer is payable in deferred common stock, and the remainder is payable, at the election of each director, in the form of restricted common stock, deferred common stock, current cash and/or deferred cash.  Pursuant to the Plan, Mr. Moeller was also provided a grant of restricted stock upon commencement of service as a member of the Board of Directors equal to the full annual base retainer divided by the closing price of a share of the Companys common stock on the commencement date, which amounted to 2,745 shares of restricted common stock.
 
A press release announcing the election of Mr. Moeller as a director, as described above, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
ITEM 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits.  The following document is filed as an exhibit to this report:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release dated August 3, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  August 8, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
 

 
 
 
  Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
 
 
MONSANTO COMPANY ADDS JON R. MOELLER TO BOARD OF DIRECTORS, APPROVES DIVIDEND INCREASE TO 30 CENTS PER SHARE
ST. LOUIS (August 3, 2011)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) announced today the appointment of Jon R. Moeller to the companys Board of Directors. Moeller is currently the chief financial officer for the Procter & Gamble Company (NYSE: PG).  Since joining P&G in 1988, Moeller has held a variety of positions in the companys finance organization.  He was named vice president and treasurer in 2007 and chief financial officer in 2009.
Moellers appointment is effective immediately, and he will stand for election to the Board at the 2013 annual meeting of shareowners.  He will serve on the Audit and Finance Committee and the Science and Technology Committee.
 On behalf of Monsanto, I am pleased to announce the appointment of Jon Moeller as an independent director to our Board, said Hugh Grant, Monsantos chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer.  His impressive experience with one of the worlds leading corporations has equipped him to bring valuable insight to our board on corporate and financial matters related to operating a complex global business.
Moeller is a member of the Cincinnati Business Advisory Council of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland as well as The Conference Boards Council of Financial Executives and a lecturer at Cornell Universitys Johnson Graduate School of Management.
The addition of Moeller to Monsantos board brings the number of directors to 11, with 10 independent directors. Additional information on Monsantos Board of Directors can be accessed at .
www.monsanto.com/directors
Board approves dividend increase to 30 cents per share
The company also announced the Board of Directors declared an increase in the quarterly dividend on its common shares from 28 cents per share to 30 cents per share as part of its continuing commitment to return value to shareowners. The dividend relates to the companys fourth quarter of its 2011 fiscal year. The dividend is payable on Oct. 28, 2011 to shareowners of record on Oct. 7, 2011.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our worlds natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our News Release RSS Feed.
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com


