FILE:MON/MON-8K-20110406082841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 6, 2011, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter fiscal year 2011 financial and operating results for the period ended February 28 2011.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  ; This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated April 6, 2011, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 6, 2011
 
3
 

 
 
 
  Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
MONSANTO ANNOUNCES SECOND-QUARTER FINANCIAL RESULTS IN LINE WITH MID-TEENS EARNINGS GROWTH OPPORTUNITY
Company Confirms Full-Year Ongoing Earnings Per Share Guidance, Raises Free Cash Flow Expectation
(April 6, 2011)  With half its fiscal year complete, Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today said a solid sales season for its U.S. seeds and traits business and disciplined approach to spending have positioned the company to realize its mid-teens earnings growth opportunity this year and set a strong foundation for coming seasons.  In reporting its earnings results for the quarter ending Feb. 28, 2011, the company highlighted performance tracking with projections in both the seeds and genomics and agricultural productivity segments that affirms its full-year ongoing earnings per share guidance.  The company also increased its free cash flow guidance for the full-year, driven by better than expected working-capital management and a strong economic climate in agriculture.
ST. LOUIS
 
 
 
We came into this year with an operational plan built around creating value for our customers, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer for Monsanto.  It was a plan that was designed for balanced growth  across crops, across geographies and through a combination of mix and volume improvements.  We exist to serve our farmer customers, and it is rewarding to see this plan is resonating with them.  Given the tempo of the year, we are where we should be, and we have the right pieces and the right execution to feel very good that mid-teens earnings growth in 2011 is on track.
Results of Operations
Net sales increased $239 million, or 6 percent, in the three-month comparison driven by volume in both the seeds and genomics and agricultural productivity segments.  Net income in the second quarter was $1 billion.
Gross profit rose 10 percent in the quarter to $2.3 billion, with margins higher due to cost improvements.  For the first six months, gross profit is up 10 percent or $288 million.
Operating expenses were up $2 million in the second quarter compared to the prior year.  In the three-month comparison, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased 2 percent.  R&D expenses increased as the company continues to manage more projects in advanced pipeline phases.
Earnings per share (EPS) for the second quarter was $1.88 on an as-reported basis, and $1.87 on an ongoing basis.  EPS for the first six months of fiscal year 2011 was $1.88 on an as-reported basis, and $1.89 on an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of EPS to ongoing EPS see page 1).
Cash Flow
The second quarter saw a continuation of the strong start to the year.  For the first half of fiscal year 2011, cash flow from operations was a source of $1.4 billion compared to $256 million in the first half last year.  Net cash required by investing activities for the first half of fiscal year 2011 was $524 million, compared to $345 million for the same period of fiscal year 2010.
Net cash required by financing activities for the first half of 2011 was $668 million, compared to net cash required of $259 million for the same period of fiscal year 2010.  The company continues to make progress on its current $1 billion, three-year share repurchase authorization, spending $114 million on repurchases in the second quarter for a total purchase of $381 million for the first half of the fiscal year.
Free cash flow was a source of $917 million for the first half of fiscal year 2011, compared to a use of $89 million for the first half of fiscal year 2010.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
 
 
Outlook
The company affirmed its previously announced ongoing EPS guidance and raised its full-year free cash flow guidance for fiscal year 2011 to the range of $900 million to $1.1 billion.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $1.8 billion to $2.1 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $900 million to $1 billion for fiscal year 2011.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
The company confirmed full-year 2011 ongoing EPS guidance is in the range of $2.72 to $2.82.  Full-year 2011 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is in the range of $2.66 to $2.79.  (For a reconciliation of EPS, see note 1.)
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
In total, sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 increased 5 percent or $173 million, driven by global unit volume growth and a mix upgrade in the United States.
While its early in the season, the company indicated sales are pacing to meet the mid-teens millions of U.S. acres it had expected for both its GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans and the Genuity reduced refuge corn family this year.  This brings a positive mix improvement across Monsantos U.S. soybean and corn portfolios.
Globally, the company saw higher branded corn sales in Brazil, the United States and Europe in the quarter.  In U.S. corn, the company has made significant product and pricing strategy moves, identifying lead products in each of the major geographies while making all products available across areas to meet farmers needs.  Genuity SmartStax, which provides the broadest spectrum of insect and weed control, is receiving strong interest in heavy rootworm areas of the Northern Corn Belt.  GenuityVT Triple PRO and GenuityVT Double PRO are complementing the GenuitySmartStaxbuild-out, with GenuityVT Triple PROgeneratingstrong interest in the South as GenuityVT Double PROdoes the same in areas with an established doubles market.
 
The cotton business also is performing well this year, with mix and volume improvements led by second-generation trait offerings and continued breeding gains.  The company maintained a positive outlook for vegetables, with the gross profit decline attributed primarily to sales mix timing, which is expected to normalize over the rest of the year.
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Over the last year, the company has made fundamental changes in the crop protection business in particular as it relates to Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides.  With this quarter, the structural changes made to this segment are now reflected in the companys financial statements.
In our Agricultural Productivity reportable segment, the company has consolidated the Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides, selective chemistry and lawn-and-garden businesses.  The company made this change because the Agricultural Productivity segment now is managed as one business, and the ongoing operations of that business reflect the restructuring that is now complete.
Sales in the second quarter of fiscal 2011 for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment increased 10 percent, with gross profit improvement as well as a function of volume and cost improvements primarily related to production efficiencies following the restructuring.
 
 
 
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results and future expectations and may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information. Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Ro ws at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Roundup, Genuity, SmartStax and Roundup Ready 2 Yield,
VT Triple PRO and VT Double PRO are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup-branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes.  Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release.  With respect to the fiscal year 2011 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
 


