FILE:MON/MON-8K-20110629083626.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 29, 2011, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its third quarter fiscal year 2011 financial and operating results for the period ended May 31, 2011.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated June 29, 2011, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  June 29, 2011
 
3
 
 
 

                                                       
 
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
MILESTONE ACHIEVEMENTS FOR SEEDS AND TRAITS AND IMPROVED PERFORMANCE ACROSS CORE BUSINESS DRIVE STRONGER OUTLOOK FOR MONSANTO
Company Raises Full-Year Ongoing Earnings Per Share Guidance to $2.84 to $2.88, or $2.82 to $2.86 As-Reported, While Increasing Free Cash Flow Guidance for the Second Time
(June 29, 2011)  Looking at the scorecard of milestones to achieve this year, Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) executives today said the strength of its seeds and traits business in the United States and Latin America combined with the well-received implementation of its agricultural productivity strategy drove a successful fiscal third quarter for the company.  The key third quarter  one of the companys most significant historically  is a highlight in a year that has created real momentum with the establishment of key products in the United States, accelerated adoption in Latin America and the growth of other key markets.  The company is well-positioned to conclude fiscal 2011 at a high-teens ongoing earnings growth target and translate that growth into greater free cash flow.
ST. LOUIS
 
 
 
The third quarter is always an important quarter for Monsanto, as it effectively concludes our fiscal year from an operational standpoint, said Hugh Grant, Monsantos president and chief executive officer.  Our U.S. selling season is almost complete, and farmers in Latin America are now harvesting their crops.  That gives us real data to validate the momentum weve felt.  We made significant changes to our business this year, and those changes resonated with our customers.  We earned their business and achieved what we set out to achieve:  unit volume growth in our core crops, a successful implementation of our agricultural productivity strategy and sustained cost-discipline across our operations.  That positions us well for the coming years and the mid-teens earnings growth opportunity we see for this company.
Results of Operations
Net sales increased $628 million, or 21 percent, in the three-month comparison driven by unit volume growth in both the seeds and genomics and agricultural productivity segments.  Net income attributable to Monsanto Company in the third quarter was $680 million.
Gross profit rose 41 percent in the quarter to approximately $2 billion, with margins higher due to mix and cost improvements.  For the first nine months, gross profit is up 20 percent or $856 million.
Operating expenses were up $124 million in the third quarter compared to the prior year, as expected. In the three-month comparison, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses were up 20 percent, tracking with the increase expected as the company realizes more investments in employee and sales incentives and new product launches.  Research & Development (R&D) expenses increased as the company continues to make incremental investments in R&D to help fuel future growth.
Earnings per share (EPS) for the third quarter were $1.26 on both an as-reported basis and an ongoing basis. EPS for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 were $3.14 on both an as-reported basis and an ongoing basis. (For a reconciliation of EPS to ongoing EPS see page 1).
Cash Flow
The companys strong cash position continued in the third quarter.  For the first nine months of the fiscal year, cash flow from operations was a source of $944 million compared with a use of $538 million in the first nine months last year. Net cash required by investing activities for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011 was $707 million, compared to $614 million for the same period of fiscal year 2010.
Net cash required by financing activities for the first nine months of 2011 was $766 million, compared to net cash required of $323 million for the same period of fiscal year 2010.
Free cash flow was a source of $237 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011, compared to a use of nearly $1.2 billion for the first nine months of fiscal year 2010. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
The company continues to make progress on its current $1 billion, three-year share repurchase authorization, representing one of its most significant uses of cash.  The company spent $105 million on repurchases in the third quarter for total repurchases to date of $487 million, nearly half the authorization.
 
 
 
Outlook
The company raised its full-year as-reported and ongoing EPS guidance and free cash flow guidance.  The company expects full-year 2011 ongoing EPS in the range of $2.84 to $2.88.  Full-year 2011 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is expected in the range of $2.82 to $2.86.  (For a reconciliation of EPS, see note 1.)
The company expects free-cash for fiscal year 2011 in the range of $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $2 billion to $2.3 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $900 million to $1 billion for fiscal year 2011. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
In total, sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 increased 12 percent or $285 million over the prior year period, driven by global unit volume growth and a mix upgrade in the United States.  The company expects to reach the high end of its gross-profit range of $5.1 billion to $5.2 billion for the business on the strength of the double-digit gross profit results year-to-date.
The company expects to achieve the mid-teens millions of U.S. acres it had targeted for both its GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans and the Genuity reduced refuge corn family this year, adding a positive mix improvement across its U.S. soybean and corn portfolios and establishing a foundation for future growth across both crops.  U.S. corn volume growth is complemented by volume growth in Europe and Latin America, where Monsanto has seen volume increases in Argentina and a rebound in planted acres in Brazil.
The cotton business continues to deliver a strong performance, with an increase in acres and breeding improvements bringing growth.  Monsanto expects to grow volume as the cotton market expands.
The company continues to work towards achieving sales growth and margin expansion in vegetables.
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.  The segment saw a strong quarter, with gross profit of $249 million led by the positive response to the repositioning of the glyphosate business and contributions from the lawn-and-garden business, which despite unfavorable weather is set to achieve its second year of above-historical profitability.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
The company now expects the segment to deliver gross profit of roughly $700 million for the year, an increase from the previous estimate.
Sales in the third quarter of fiscal 2011 for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment increased 57 percent, with gross profit improvement as well as a function of volume and cost improvements.
Monsanto announced the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission is conducting an investigation regarding Monsantos customer incentive programs relating to its glyphosate products in fiscal years 2009 and 2010, and Monsanto has received a subpoena for documents in connection therewith.  Monsanto is cooperating with the staffs investigation.
Webcast Information
 
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results and future expectations and may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information or at .  Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
http://phx.corporate-ir.net/phoenix.zhtml?p=irol-eventDetails&c=122069&eventID=4137207
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Genuity and Roundup Ready 2 Yield are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
of ongoing operations.
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2011 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


