FILE:MON/MON-8K-20110106083707.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On January 6, 2011, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its first quarter fiscal year 2011 financial and operating results for the period ended November 30, 2010.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  ; This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-K.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated January 6, 2011, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 6, 2011
 
3
 
 
 
 
 

 
REFLECTING STRONG SEEDS-AND-TRAITS PERFORMANCE, MONSANTO Q1 ON TRACK AS COMPANY CONFIRMS FULL-YEAR ONGOING EPS AND FREE CASH FLOW GUIDANCE
Nine Projects Advance Phase in Biotech Pipeline, Reinforcing Monsantos Industry-Leading R&D Engine; U.S. Seed Order Pace Tracking with Targets
 
 Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) reported earnings per share growth and significant free cash generation for the first quarter of 2011, which ended Nov. 30, 2010, and today announced nine phase advances as part of its annual research and development pipeline update.  The company also reaffirmed its mid-teens earnings growth and free cash flow guidance for fiscal year 2011.
ST. LOUIS (Jan. 6, 2011)
-more- 
 
 
Our first quarter tracked well with our operating plan across the crops, geographies and products we expect to be drivers in 2011, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer for Monsanto.  Were executing against the areas most important to our business growth, particularly our seeds-and-traits focus in Latin America and delivering on our seed strategy in the United States.  Our early U.S. order books show farmers are interested in our newest products, Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans and the reduced-refuge corn fa mily anchored by Genuity SmartStax.  And our R&D pipeline remains strong, leaving the company well-positioned for long-term growth.
Results of Operations
 
Net sales increased 8 percent in the quarter to $1.8 billion, with increases across all major crops in the seeds and genomics segment.  Gross profit for the total company increased 11 percent, and gross profit as a percent of sales improved one percentage point to 45 percent, driven by increases in seeds and traits revenue across all major crops  particularly corn and soybeans in Latin America and cotton in Australia.
 
Selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses decreased 9 percent for the quarter due largely to the companys restructuring actions in the prior year.  R&D expenses increased 13 percent as the company manages more projects in advanced pipeline phases.
 
The companys first quarter earnings per share (EPS) was $0.02 on an ongoing basis ($0.01 on an as-reported basis). (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
Cash Flow
 
The first quarter of fiscal 2011 was a significant source of cash.  Free cash flow was $500 million in the quarter compared with a use of cash of $1.6 billion for the same period last year.  This is primarily the result of a timing shift from last years second quarter into this years first quarter, as the later harvest in 2009 delayed prepayments in fiscal 2010.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
Net cash provided by operating activities was $624 million, compared to a use of $1.4 billion in the first quarter last year.  Net cash required by investing activities for the first quarter of fiscal 2011 was $124 million, compared with a use of $197 million for the year-ago quarter.  Net cash required by financing activities was $340 million, compared to net cash provided of $102 million for the prior years first quarter.  The company spent $267 million in the first quarter on share repurchases, crossing a quarter of the current $1 billion, three-year authorization.
 
 
 
Outlook
 
The company affirmed its guidance of free cash flow for fiscal year 2011 in the range of $800 million to $900 million, reflecting an investment of $600 to $700 million in capital expenditures.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $900 million to $1 billion for fiscal year 2011.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
The company confirmed full-year 2011 ongoing earnings per share (EPS) guidance is in the range of $2.72 to $2.82.  Full-year 2011 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is in the range of $2.69 to $2.79.  (For a reconciliation of EPS, see note 1.)
 
 
 
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
 
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment increased 13 percent in the first quarter, reflecting increases across the corn, soybean, cotton and vegetable platforms.
 
Corn seed and traits net sales increased 8 percent over last years quarter.  The primary driver was the companys Latin America seed business, with increased acres in Argentina and the mix benefit from increased overall trait penetration in Brazil.  The company also gained a year-over-year volume increase in the United States as the U.S. order book tracks well with the companys product strategy and acreage targets.
 
 
 
Volume increases brought soybean seeds and trait sales up 12 percent compared to last year, and cotton sales saw growth led by an increase in planted acres in Australia.  Vegetable sales were up 6 percent or $10 million.
 
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
 
Sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2011 for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment remained flat, with sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides tracking well with expectations following last years strategic repositioning.  Sales of Roundup and other glyphosate-based herbicides increased 3 percent, reflecting the early Latin American sales-and-application season, leading an increase in volume offset by the lower net selling price.
Webcast Information
 
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results, future expectations and an update of projects within the companys R&D pipeline, including the nine phase advancements.  The call also may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
 
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information.  Visitors
www.monsanto.com
 
 
 
may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
About Monsanto Company
 
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit:  .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on Facebook at , or subscribe to our
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.facebook.com/MonsantoCo
News Release RSS Feed
.
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual p roperty protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or o bligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
Notes to editors: Genuity, Roundup, Roundup Ready 2 Yield and SmartStax are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup-branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss).
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
on noncontrolling interest.
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release.  With respect to the fiscal year 2011 free cash flow target, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 
 
 
 


