FILE:MON/MON-8K-20111207082355.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On December 7, 2011, Monsanto Company issued a press release updating guidance for the first quarter of its fiscal year 2012. This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measure free cash flow appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-K.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the U. S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the Exchange Act) or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.                      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated December 7, 2011, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  December 7, 2011
 
3
 
 

 
 
 
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
 
MONSANTO INCREASES FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE GUIDANCE AND REAFFIRMS FULL-YEAR MID-TEENS EARNINGS GROWTH GUIDANCE
ST. LOUIS (Dec. 7, 2011) - Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today increased its expected earnings per share guidance for the first quarter of fiscal year 2012 and reaffirmed its full-year guidance, confirming its mid-teens earnings growth outlook for the year.  The company now expects first-quarter ongoing and as-reported earnings per share in the range of $0.15 to $0.20, an increase from the previous guidance of the high end of the $0.10 to $0.15 range. (For a reconciliation of EPS guidance, see note 1.)
Reflecting the companys strategic growth plan, the first quarter is driven primarily by the strength of the business in Brazil and Argentina, with some contribution from timing benefits in the U.S. and Australia.
Full year earnings per share and cash flow guidance are unchanged.  Earnings per share for the full fiscal year are expected in the range of $3.34 to $3.44 on an ongoing and as-reported basis. The company projects free cash flow in the range of $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion for fiscal year 2012, with net cash provided by operating activities to be $2.2 billion to $2.5 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be approximately $900 million to $1 billion. (For reconciliations of EPS and of free cash flow guidance, see note 1.)
Pierre Courduroux, senior vice president and chief financial officer, will discuss the updated guidance when addressing investors today at the Bank of America Merrill Lynch 2011 Industrials Conference.   Courduroux will speak at 10:45 a.m. central time and slides and a simultaneous audio webcast will be available for the presentation by visiting the investor section of Monsantos web site at .  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com/investors
Monsanto will announce its first quarter earnings on Thursday, Jan. 5, 2012.
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our
 
 
 
world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits and the previously-announced SEC investigation; the previously reported material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities. With respect to the fiscal year 2012 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


