FILE:MON/MON-8K-20120627082552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On June 27, 2012, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its third quarter fiscal year 2012 financial and operating results for the period ended May 31, 2012.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated June 27, 2012, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  June 27, 2012
 
3
 

 
 
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
 
MONSANTO COMPANY DELIVERS STRONG THIRD QUARTER AS SEED BUSINESS MAINTAINS MOMENTUM THROUGH CULMINATION OF KEY SELLING SEASONS
Company Reaffirms Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Guidance, Projecting Up to 25 Percent Ongoing Earnings Growth and Setting Stage as Layers of Opportunity Across Business Position Company Well for Strong Growth in Fiscal Year 2013
(June 27, 2012)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) executives today said the continued momentum of its seeds and traits business through key seed selling seasons drove a strong third quarter, further highlighting a year of the companys proven delivery on important business drivers. Executives also reaffirmed Monsanto is on track to achieve its recently increased ongoing earnings growth target and is poised to see mid-teens earnings growth off that base given the strength of its core business.
ST. LOUIS
 
 
 
With our most significant selling seasons wrapped up, the third quarter gives us a near complete view of our business for the fiscal year and I feel very good about where we stand, said Hugh Grant, Monsantos chairman, president and chief executive officer. Weve achieved excellent business results this year, but more importantly weve continued to receive positive response to our products from farmers.  As I look to 2013 and beyond, I am confident as our momentum is now validated with sustained business results and I believe the opportunity ahead for our customers, our business and our owners is significant.
Results of Operations
Net sales increased $611 million or 17 percent in the three-month comparison driven by unit volume growth in the companys seeds and traits business, complemented by better-than-expected sales across Monsantos chemistry portfolio. Third quarter gross profit rose 20 percent to $2.3 billion compared to the prior year third quarter. For the first nine months, gross profit is up 21 percent.
Operating expenses were up $61 million in the third quarter compared to the same period in the prior year. In the three-month comparison, SG&A expenses increased to $638 million.  R&D expenses also increased to $375 million for the quarter, reflecting incremental investment as the company continues to advance and expand its pipeline.
The companys third quarter earnings per share (EPS) was $1.63 on an ongoing basis, $1.74 on an as-reported basis. EPS for the first nine months of fiscal year 2012 was $4.14 on an ongoing basis, $4.21 on an as-reported basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
Cash Flow
The third quarter saw a continuation of the strong first half of the fiscal year for cash flow. For the first nine months of fiscal year 2012, cash flow from operations was a source of $853 million compared with a source of $944 million in the first nine months last year. Net cash required by investing activities for the first nine months of fiscal year 2012 was $542 million, compared to $707 million for the same period of fiscal year 2011.
Net cash required by financing activities for the first nine months of 2012 was $1 billion, compared to net cash required of $766 million for the same period of fiscal year 2011.
Free cash flow was a source of $311 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2012, compared to a source of $237 million for the first nine months of fiscal year 2011. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Earlier this month, the company announced that its board had authorized a new share repurchase program, effective July 1, 2012, for up to $1 billion of the companys common stock over a three-year period. Monsantos existing $1 billion share repurchase program is nearly complete.
 
 
 
Outlook
The company confirmed 2012 earnings per share guidance in the range of $3.65 to $3.70 on an ongoing basis, with mid-teens ongoing earnings growth for fiscal year 2013 projected from the base of $3.65 to $3.70. The company expects 2012 earnings per share on an as-reported basis to be $3.73 to $3.78. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.) The company also reaffirmed its previously announced full-year free cash flow guidance for fiscal year 2012 in the range of $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion. The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be $1 billion to $1.1 billion for fiscal year 2012. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
Sales for Monsantos Seeds and Genomics segment in the third quarter of fiscal 2012 increased 18 percent or $481 million over the prior year period supported by strong sales across its U.S. corn and soybean portfolios. For the first nine months, gross profit in the segment is up approximately 20 percent over the same period last year.
In the U.S. market, continued sales momentum carried from the early spring throughout the planting season and an increase in planted acres of corn across the country helped deliver a record seed sales volume season for the company. In 2012, the company achieved continued strong adoption of its latest innovations, with its GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans projected to be on close to 30 million acres and its Genuity reduced refuge corn family projected to be on more than 25 million acres this year in the United States.
The successful U.S. season was complemented by strong performances in key international markets, including Europe and Latin America. In Latin America, strong continued performance in Brazil was driven by an increase in total acres, mix improvement and higher-than-anticipated overall sales.  In the Northern hemisphere, core business growth and expanded acres helped drive better-than-expected performance in Eastern Europe.
 
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Sales in the third quarter for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment increased $130 million over the same period last year due to higher-than-expected sales across the companys chemistry portfolio, including its Roundup, lawn-and-garden and selective herbicides businesses.
 
 
 
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today. The call will focus on these results and future expectations and may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information. Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast. Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality. Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy. To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits and the previously-announced SEC investigation; the previously reported material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Roundup, Genuity and Roundup Ready 2 Yield are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP. The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release. With respect to the fiscal year 2012 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


