FILE:MON/MON-8K-20120404082500.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 4, 2012, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its second quarter fiscal year 2012 financial and operating results for the period ended February 29, 2012.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated April 4, 2012, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  April 4, 2012
 
3
 

 
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
RECORD SECOND QUARTER REFLECTS STRONG U.S. RESULTS, DRIVES INCREASED
FULL-YEAR OUTLOOK FOR MONSANTO
Company Raises Full-Year Ongoing Earnings Per Share Guidance to $3.49 to $3.54, or $3.45 to $3.50
As-Reported, While Increasing Free Cash Flow Guidance
(April 4, 2012)  With half the fiscal year complete, Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) executives today said the strong performance of the seeds and traits business and the timing of an early U.S. season drove a record quarter.  In reporting earnings results, executives said the cumulative strength of the business, including the best second quarter for the companys seeds and genomics segment, translated to an increase in full-year ongoing and as-reported earnings per share guidance.  The company also increased its free cash flow guidance for the full year.
ST. LOUIS
 
 
 
Our strong U.S. selling season and growth from Latin America during the first six months have come together to set us up for a great 2012, said Hugh Grant, chairman, president and chief executive officer for Monsanto.  Weve seen contributions from growth across crops and geographies, which position us well to deliver high-teens ongoing earnings growth this year.  Were also pleased growers have recognized the value of our product portfolio and given us the opportunity to earn their business.
Results of Operations
Net sales increased $617 million or 15 percent in the three-month comparison driven by global gains in corn and a strong selling season in the United States. Second quarter gross profit rose 17 percent to $2.7 billion compared to the prior year second quarter.  For the first six months, gross profit is up 21 percent or $667 million.
Operating expenses were up in the second quarter compared to the prior year, tracking with the increases the company would expect as it grows its business. In the three-month comparison, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses increased to $543 million.  R&D expenses increased to $353 million for the quarter based on investments to support future growth opportunities.
The companys second quarter earnings per share (EPS) was $2.28 on an ongoing basis, $2.24 on an as-reported basis. (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see note 1.)
Cash Flow
For the first half of fiscal year 2012, cash flow from operations was a source of nearly $1.7 billion compared to $1.4 billion over the same period last year.
Net cash required by investing activities for the first half of fiscal year 2012 was $402 million, compared to $524 million for the same period of fiscal year 2011.  Net cash required by financing activities for the first half of 2012 was $672 million, compared to net cash required of $668 million for the same period of fiscal year 2011.
Free cash flow was a source of nearly $1.3 billion for the first half of fiscal year 2012, compared to $917 million for the first half of fiscal year 2011.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
 
 
 
Outlook
The company raised its full-year ongoing EPS guidance to $3.49 to $3.54 per share. Full-year 2012 EPS guidance on an as-reported basis is expected in the range of $3.45 to $3.50.  (For a reconciliation of EPS, see note 1.)  The company also raised full-year free cash flow guidance to $1.6 to $1.8 billion.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $2.5 billion to $2.8 billion, and net cash required by investing activities to be $900 million to $1 billion for fiscal year 2012.  (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
Sales in the Seeds and Genomics segment for the second quarter were $3.9 billion, representing an increase of $503 million over the same period last year and reaffirming the companys seeds and traits business as its central driver for growth in 2012.  Gross profit in the second quarter was up $360 million or approximately 17 percent compared to the prior year second quarter.  For the first six months, gross profit is up 21 percent over the same period last year.
 
Second quarter growth was led by the strength of Monsantos corn business, with the strongest contributor being the U.S. corn business.  The strong start to the U.S. season reinforces the companys confidence in its product and pricing strategy and its ability to build on the branded corn volume increase achieved in 2011.  The company also saw higher corn sales in Latin America in the quarter.
The soy and cotton businesses also continue to perform well year-to-date. In soybeans, second quarter seeds and traits sales were up 12 percent driven by an increased trait mix of GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans in the United States.
With the strong U.S. results, sales are tracking well for the expected increase in the companys newest corn and soybean platforms in the United States.  While still early in the season, Monsanto expects acres of its GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans and Genuity reduced refuge corn family to increase by more than 10 million acres each.  That step up is expected to allow the company to reach the projected 22 million to 24 million acre range for the Genuity reduced refuge corn family and the 27 million to 30 million acre range for GenuityRoundup Ready 2 Yield soybeans in 2012.
 
 
 
Vegetable sales were down from the same quarter of the prior year due primarily to current market conditions in Europe.  Vegetable gross profit was also down compared to the same quarter of the prior year reflecting the European market decrease, as well as an inventory write-off that will also help support the companys vegetable business growth strategy.
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Sales in the second quarter for Monsantos Agricultural Productivity segment increased $114 million over the same period last year due to strong volume and mix benefit.
 
 
 
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results and future expectations and may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at and clicking on Investor Information.  Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits and the previously-announced SEC investigation; the previously reported material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Genuity and Roundup Ready 2 Yield are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
References to Roundup herbicides in this release mean Roundup-branded herbicides, excluding lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes.  Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
  Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release.  With respect to the fiscal year 2012 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


