FILE:MON/MON-8K-20121003082023.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 3, 2012, Monsanto Company issued a press release announcing its fourth quarter and full fiscal year 2012 financial and operating results for the period ended August 31, 2012.  This press release is furnished as Exhibit 99 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share (EPS) on an ongoing basis.  Our ongoing EPS financial measure excludes certain after-tax items that we do not consider part of ongoing operations.  We believe that our ongoing EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflects our ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and is more useful to investors for comparative purposes.  In addition, management uses the ongoing EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes, and as a guide in determining incentive compensation.  The presentation of EPS on an ongoing basis is intended to supplement investors understanding of our operating performance.  This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  Information concerning Monsantos use of the non-GAAP financial measures free cash flow and EBIT appears in Monsantos most recent Report on Form 10-Q.
We are furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition of Form 8-K promulgated by the SEC.  This information shall not be deemed to be filed for the purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, unless we specifically incorporate it by reference in a document filed under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.  By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, we make no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
ITEM 9.01.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS.
(d)           Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99                      Press Release, dated October 3, 2012, issued by Monsanto Company
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  October 3, 2012
 
3
 

 
Monsanto Company
800 North Lindbergh Blvd
St. Louis, Missouri 63167
MONSANTO COMPANYS GLOBAL PERFORMANCE DRIVES 25 PERCENT 2012 ONGOING EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH; COMPANY UNDERSCORES MID-TEENS ONGOING EARNINGS PER SHARE GROWTH OPPORTUNITY IN 2013
Company Projects 2013 Ongoing and As-Reported
 
Earnings Per Share Guidance of
$4.18 to $4.32
 
(Oct. 3, 2012)  Monsanto Company (NYSE: MON) today announced it concluded fiscal year 2012 with ongoing earnings per share growth of 25 percent, and added that it is well-positioned to attain mid-teens ongoing earnings per share growth next year. The company delivered growth in its base business in the United States on the continued adoption of its key corn and soybean platforms, complemented by international seeds and traits performance. Executives also highlighted early 2012 U.S. corn harvest results, which reinforce Monsantos long-standing yield advantage even in one of the most difficult growing seasons on record.
ST. LOUIS
 
 
 
Weve proven our business on a global stage with back-to-back years of tremendous performance and momentum, said Hugh Grant, chairman and chief executive officer for Monsanto. With more waves of innovation and global opportunities than ever before, Im confident that by building off what we accomplished in 2012 we can achieve steady growth in fiscal year 2013 as we continue to deliver sustainable yield to our farmer customers.
Results of Operations
Monsanto reported net sales of $2.1 billion for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012.  Net sales for the full fiscal year were $13.5 billion, a 14 percent increase over fiscal year 2011.  Full year net sales results were driven primarily by higher global corn seeds and traits revenue, and increased soybean seeds and traits revenue in the United States and Brazil.
Seeds and Genomics segment net sales were $1.2 billion for the quarter, a decrease from the prior year.  For the fiscal year, net sales for the Seeds and Genomics segment reached $9.8 billion, a 14 percent increase over the prior year.  Agricultural Productivity segment net sales were $895 million for the quarter.  Net sales for the Agricultural Productivity segment for the fiscal year grew to $3.7 billion.
Monsanto reported a net loss of $229 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2012, compared with a reported net loss of $112 million in the same period last year.  Net income for fiscal year 2012 was $2 billion, an increase over fiscal year 2011 net income of $1.6 billion.
The companys fiscal year 2012 earnings per share (EPS) was $3.70 on an ongoing basis and $3.79 on an as-reported basis.  For the fourth quarter, the company reported a loss per share of $0.44 on an ongoing basis and $0.42 on an as-reported basis.  (For a reconciliation of ongoing EPS, see page 1 and note 1.)
Cash Flow
For fiscal year 2012, net cash provided by operating activities was a source of $3 billion, compared with a source of $2.8 billion in fiscal year 2011. Net cash required by investing activities was $1 billion in fiscal year 2012, compared with net cash required of $975 million last year. Net cash required by financing activities was $1.2 billion for fiscal year 2012, compared with net cash required of $864 million in fiscal year 2011. Free cash flow was a source of $2 billion for fiscal year 2012, compared to a source of $1.8 billion in fiscal year 2011. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
Outlook
In fiscal year 2013, Monsanto expects to achieve mid-teens ongoing EPS growth off the 2012 base of $3.70 for a range of $4.18 to $4.32.The company expects as-reported EPS to also be in the range of $4.18 to $4.32.  (For a reconciliation of 2013 EPS guidance, see note 1.)
 
The Seeds and Genomics segment is expected to deliver gross profit in the range of $6.55 billion in 2013, with gross profit growth projected to be divided roughly evenly between the United States and international regions.
Gross profit for the Agricultural Productivity segment next year is expected in the range of $1 billion.
The company projects free cash flow in the range of $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion for fiscal year 2013.  The company expects net cash provided by operating activities to be $2.8 billion to $3.1 billion, and net cash required by
 
 
 
investing activities to be approximately $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion for fiscal year 2013. (For a reconciliation of free cash flow, see note 1.)
In fiscal year 2013, the company expects selling, general and administrative expenses to be in the range of $2.55 billion.  The companys research and development spend is projected in the range of $1.53 billion for fiscal year 2013.
consists of the companys global seeds and related traits business.
The Seeds and Genomics segment
For the fiscal year, Monsanto realized Seeds and Genomics segment sales of $9.8 billion, reflecting a 14 percent increase over the prior year.  Segment sales in the fourth quarter were $1.2 billion, a decrease from the prior year period.
In the United States, branded seed volume in fiscal year 2012 grew by the largest increment in three years and outpaced market expansion. In corn, the company reached 27 million planted U.S. acres for its Genuity Reduced Refuge Family. While harvest is still in progress, the company shared some early highlights of what the 2012 U.S. corn harvest has shown to date:
 
 
 
In 2013, the company is targeting 36 million to 38 million acres for the Reduced Refuge Family. Genuity VT Triple PRO RIB Complete, a convenient, single-bag refuge option, will join Genuity SmartStax RIB Complete and Genuity VT Double PRO RIB Complete corn blends as an additional product choice available for the 2013 season.  The DroughtGard Hybrids system will also be introduced in 2013 in the Western Great Plains under stewardship requirements pending import approvals in key export markets.
In soybeans, the company reached a total of 32 million acres for its Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield product in the United States.  The company expects the Genuity Roundup Ready 2 Yield platform growth to continue, targeting 39 million to 41 million acres in 2013.
In 2013, the company expects Latin America to again be a strong source of growth complementing the U.S. business, driven by the continued corn opportunity in Brazil and Argentina.  In Argentina, the company has introduced Genuity VT Triple PRO corn as another product choice for farmers and expects the acceleration of the conversion of double stacks to the triple-stack product.  Similarly, in Brazil, growers choosing to upgrade from single trait corn products to the first double stack, VT PRO 2, is also expected to accelerate. Complementing the continued strong adoption of the companys next-generation soy platform in the United States, the Intacta RR2 PRO soybean product is expected to be a driver of growth with expanded Ground Breakers on-farm testing planned for 2013 as the product ramps up for commercial launch in Brazil and is introduced in other countries in coming years.
Vegetable sales, up in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year period, were down year-over-year.In 2013, the company expects the vegetable business to return to growthand continues to anticipate it elevating to its third largest crop platform in terms of gross profit in the coming years. Cotton revenue decreased year-over-year due in part to acre shifts to other crops.
 
 
consists of the crop protection products and lawn-and-garden herbicide products.
The Agricultural Productivity segment
Segment sales for the quarter reached $895 million with gross profit of $250 million.  For the fiscal year, the segment delivered net sales of $3.7 billion with gross profit of $986 million,with year-over-year increases that reflect strong performance from the companys Roundup, lawn-and-garden and selective herbicides businesses.
 
 
 
 
Webcast Information
In conjunction with this announcement, Monsanto will hold a conference call at 8:30 a.m. central time (9:30 a.m. eastern time) today.  The call will focus on these results and future expectations and may include a discussion of Monsantos strategic initiatives, product performance and other matters related to the companys business.
Presentation slides and a simultaneous audio webcast of the conference call may be accessed by visiting the companys web site at or by visiting . Visitors may need to download Windows Media Player prior to listening to the webcast.  Following the live broadcast, a replay of the webcast will be available on the Monsanto Web site for three weeks.
www.monsanto.com/investors
http://edge.media-server.com/m/p/763un9g6/lan/en
About Monsanto Company
Monsanto Company is a leading global provider of technology-based solutions and agricultural products that improve farm productivity and food quality.  Monsanto remains focused on enabling both small-holder and large-scale farmers to produce more from their land while conserving more of our world's natural resources such as water and energy.  To learn more about our business and our commitments, please visit: .  Follow our business on Twitter at , on the company blog, Beyond the Rows at , or subscribe to our .
www.monsanto.com
www.twitter.com/MonsantoCo
www.monsantoblog.com
News Release RSS Feed
 
Cautionary Statements Regarding Forward-Looking Information:
 
Certain statements contained in this release are "forward-looking statements," such as statements concerning the company's anticipated financial results, current and future product performance, regulatory approvals, business and financial plans and other non-historical facts. These statements are based on current expectations and currently available information. However, since these statements are based on factors that involve risks and uncertainties, the company's actual performance and results may differ materially from those described or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, among others: continued competition in seeds, traits and agricultural chemicals; the company's exposure to various contingencies, including those related to intellectual property protection, regulatory compliance and the speed with which approvals are received, and public acceptance of biotechnology products; the success of the company's research and development activities; the outcomes of major lawsuits and the previously-announced SEC investigation; the previously reported material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting; developments related to foreign currencies and economies; successful operation of recent acquisitions; fluctuations in commodity prices; compliance with regulations affecting our manufacturing; the accuracy of the company's estimates related to distribution inventory levels; the company's ability to fund its short-term financing needs and to obtain payment for the products that it sells; the effect of weather conditions, natural disasters and accidents on the agriculture business or the company's facilities; and other risks and factors detailed in the company's most recent Form 10-K Report to the SEC. Undue reliance should not be placed on these forward-looking statements, which are current only as of the date of this release. The company disclaims any current intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements or any of the factors that may affect actual results.
 
Notes to editors: Monsanto and the Vine Design, DEKALB, Genuity, SmartStax, RIB Complete, VT Triple PRO, VT PRO 2, VT Double PRO, DroughtGard, Intacta RR2 PRO and Roundup Ready 2 Yield are trademarks of Monsanto Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  EBIT is defined as earnings (loss) before interest and taxes. Earnings (loss) is intended to mean net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto Company as presented in the Statements of Consolidated Operations under GAAP.  The following table reconciles EBIT to the most directly comparable financial measure, which is net income (loss) attributable to Monsanto.
Reconciliation of EBIT to Net Income (Loss):
  Ongoing EPS is calculated excluding certain after-tax items which
Reconciliation of EPS to Ongoing EPS:
Monsanto does not consider part of ongoing operations.
Free cash flow represents the total of cash flows from operating activities and investing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows presented in this release.  With respect to the fiscal year 2013 free cash flow guidance, Monsanto does not include any estimates or projections of Net Cash Provided (Required) by Financing Activities because in order to prepare any such estimate or projection, Monsanto would need to rely on market factors and conditions that are outside of its control.
Reconciliation of Free Cash Flow:
 
 
 


