FILE:MON/MON-8K-20120629144553.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Temporary Suspension of Trading Under Registrant's Employee Benefit Plans
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligations under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with the closing of an offer to certain participants in the Savings and Investment Plan (the "Plan") of Monsanto Company (the "Company") to allow them to rescind certain acquisitions of Company stock in the Plan that occurred between May 1, 2011 and June 22, 2012 (the "Rescission Offer"), all transactions out of the Monsanto (Employee) Stock Fund or Monsanto (Employer) Stock Fund (collectively, the "Monsanto Stock Funds") in the Plan will be temporarily suspended during the Blackout Period (as defined below). In order to process the Rescission Offer, the trustee of the Plan must temporarily suspend (the "Blackout") all transactions out of Monsanto Stock Funds during the Blackout Period. The Blackout will begin at 12:00 A.M., U.S. Central time, on July 30, 2012, and will end during the calendar week of July 30, 2012 (the "Blackout Period") on the date that the proceeds for the Rescission Offer are credited to the Plan accounts of such participants (which is anticipated to be within a period of up to three to five business days following the Expiration Date of the Rescission Offer). The Blackout Period is expected to last up to three to five business days.
In connection with the Blackout, on June 29, 2012, the Company sent a notice (the "Notice") to its directors and executive officers informing them of the Blackout Period, during which they will be restricted from, directly or indirectly, purchasing, acquiring, exercising, selling or otherwise transferring certain equity securities of the Company, subject to certain limited exceptions. The class of equity securities subject to the Blackout is the Company's common stock.
The name, address, and telephone number of the person designated by the Company to respond to inquiries about the Blackout are Monsanto Company, 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri, 63167, Attention: Corporate Secretary, (314) 694-1000. During the Blackout Period and for a period of two years after the Blackout Period has ended, security holders of the Company or other interested persons may obtain, without charge, the actual ending date of the Blackout Period upon written request to such contact.
The reason for the Notice is that Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and Regulation BTR promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission generally impose restrictions on trading in issuer shares by directors and executive officers in the event that 50% or more of an issuer's plan participants are so restricted with respect to the shares in their plan accounts.
A copy of the Notice is attached as Exhibit 99 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated by reference herein.
 
 
The following documents are filed as exhibits to this report:
Exhibit 99 Notice of Blackout Period
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: June 29, 2012
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
Directors and Executive Officers of Monsanto Company
To:
David F. Snively
From:
June 29, 2012
Date:
Notice of Blackout Period
Re:
As a director or executive officer of Monsanto Company (the "Company"), you are subject to the restrictions under Section 306(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which prohibits certain trades during pension plan "blackout" periods. Please note the following:
1. In connection with the closing of an offer to certain participants in the Company's Savings and Investment Plan (the "Plan") to allow them to rescind certain acquisitions of Company stock in the Plan that occurred between May 1, 2011 and June 22, 2012 (the "Rescission Offer"), all transactions out of the Monsanto (Employee) Stock Fund or Monsanto (Employer) Stock Fund (collectively, the "Monsanto Stock Funds") in the Plan will be temporarily suspended during the Blackout Period (as defined below). In order to process the Rescission Offer, the trustee of the Plan must temporarily suspend (the "Blackout") all transactions out of Monsanto Stock Funds during the Blackout Period. This means:
 
 
2. The Blackout will begin at 12:00 A.M., U.S. Central time, on July 30, 2012, and will end during the calendar week of July 30, 2012 (the "Blackout Period") on the date that the proceeds for the Rescission Offer are credited to the Plan accounts of such participants (which is anticipated to be within a period of up to three to five business days following the Expiration Date of the Rescission Offer). The Blackout Period is expected to last up to three to five business days. You will be informed as soon as reasonably possible if the timing of the Blackout Period changes.
3. Except in limited circumstances, you will be restricted during the Blackout Period from, directly or indirectly, purchasing or acquiring, any equity securities of the Company, including common stock, or options to acquire shares of Company common stock, and from exercising, selling or otherwise transferring any equity securities of the Company, including common stock, options to acquire shares of Company common stock, restricted stock units, and other equity awards you acquired in connection with your service or employment as a director or executive officer of the Company.
4. It is important to note that any such security you sell or otherwise transfer during the Blackout Period is presumed to have been acquired in connection with your service or employment with the Company, unless you establish that the securities were acquired from another source and this identification is consistent with your treatment of the securities for tax purposes and other disclosure and reporting requirements. If you are scheduled or plan to purchase, acquire, exercise, sell or otherwise transfer equity securities of the Company, including common stock, options to acquire shares of Company common stock, restricted stock units, and other equity awards during the Blackout Period, whether pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1(c) sales plan or otherwise, you must notify me to determine whether you are permitted to complete the transaction.
5. In accordance with this notice, you must suspend your trading activities prior to 12:00 A.M., U.S. Central time, on July 30, 2012, and await further notice by the Company as to the end of the Blackout Period. However, as you know, your trading activities during the dates covered by the Blackout Period, are already restricted by the Company's Executive and Director Securities Trading Policy. Please note that at the conclusion of the Blackout Period, your trading will continue to be restricted by the Company's Executive and Director Securities Trading Policy until the next open window period.
If you have any questions regarding this notice, including whether the Blackout Period has ended, please contact Monsanto Company, 800 North Lindbergh Boulevard, St. Louis, Missouri, 63167, Attention: Corporate Secretary, (314) 694-1000.


